 air, and her gaze devoured in advance those wide horizons which she was about to cross anew; it seemed to her that once at liberty she would never shut herself
horse, the second time he made one of his own men dismount and go on foot." M. de Montrevel also showed himself to be a gallant soldier; wherever there was dang
rough the streets, fifteen insurgents hacking at him with their swords. At last he managed to escape from their hands, but died two days later of his wounds. An
embourg, Sept. 15, 1814" But it was really the parents of Sand, and in particular his mother, who had prepared the fertile soil in which his teachers had sowed 
 do not say any more.’ I asked for his blessing as the king and father of all his subjects. The king burst out laughing, and told me that M. de Chamillard would
iently cleared of the murder of the king, of which I have been falsely accused, yet, the better to prove my innocence, I am, ready to engage in combat with whom
n. Darnley, like all persons of both weak and violent character, disbelieved in the persistence of will in others, unless this will was sustained by an outside 
 by smallpox, the infinite gentleness of his eyes, and the elegant framework of his long and flowing black hair, which grew in an admirable curve around a broad
" "Silence!" exclaimed the prophet in a terrible voice, "and listen to the word of God from my mouth. If this man will join us and take upon him the duties of a
tly to the places hereinafter appointed, with their furniture, cattle, and in general all their movable effects, declaring that in case of disobedience their ef
now that? Do you stay at the castle, then?" "Alas! no, madam," replied George; "at the castle I am a useless and even a dangerous friend for you, while once bey
ers shouted back that they could not trust to such assurances, and that if they wanted to pass through the village they must first give up their weapons. It may
 gratefully, thanking all those who had gathered together to meet him. At last he went off to St. Denoise, where he was to sup and sleep; but before going to be
iere, Cesas, Cambo, Colognac, and Vabre were ordered to send deputies to Durfort to confer as to the best means of bringing about that peace which everyone desi
m. The next deputation to arrive was a Catholic one, and its object was to ask that Trestaillons might be set at liberty. The prince was so indignant at this re
e told that she broke off all negotiations; however, as Bothwell had understood that he was no longer safe in camp, it was he who insisted that things should re
o important a nature for the prefect to ignore, as he had ignored so many bloody acts in the past; so in due time a full report was laid before the king. It bec
ir, and God bless you! We know that you mean well, and were the first to be taken in. But go on working for the good of the country, and God will bless you.’" D
d, that Marshal Brune was just the man to accomplish such a transformation without friction; in him the frankness and loyalty of an old soldier were combined wi
specially sent by King Henry III to Elizabeth. [Intelligence for M. Villeroy of what was done in England by M. de Bellievre about the affairs of the Queen of Sc
 the intendant, the Sieur de Baville, and also to the mayors and consuls of the places where they may be, receiving from the latter certificates that there is a
iged, in his turn, to accompany his duties with fitting compliments, which compelled the queen to take a more active part in the conversation than her preoccupa
religionist, he confided to his host the circumstances in which he found himself, and asked where he could meet with an organised band in which he could enrol h
 de Fazili, cousin of the cardinal-duke, two ladies of the house of Barbenis de Nogaret, Madame de Lamothe, daughter of the Marquis Lamothe-Barace of Anjou, and
 apartment, in which fifteen or twenty servants were coming and going. The queen and Mary Seyton mingled with this crowd, which was too much occupied to notice 
 than again try such an experiment. "Having now a village behind me which I had vowed never to re-enter, and there being no road available by which I could hope
d the Guards to their homes. But on Monday a concourse of people, who had heard that the army from Beaucaire would arrive the next day, made a hostile demonstra
 your Majesty has seen that I was obliged publicly to fail in respect, to obtain from my mother the confidence which gives me the good fortune of seeing you to-
climbed up again into my perch and looked out. The poor wretch was lying face downwards writhing in his blood; the assassins were reloading their muskets as the
sight of her, of which she had so often proved the influence, would disarm this multitude; but each time she saw this banner unfurling itself like a bloody curt
." With these words, Mary Stuart rose, and, leaving William Douglas crimson with rage, she returned into her bedroom, and bolted the door behind her. All that d
ent, and missed him. One of the men by his side was wounded and disarmed. A patrol of the regiment of Guienne, attached to which was M. Boudon, a dragoon office
gent, who kept her under his tutelage and perverted her good intentions. Murray, who knew that often the entire peace of a reign depends on the firmness one dis
and, faithful to his vocation as a dealer of death, a poisoner of stray dogs. Some of these cut-throats are still living, and fill good positions, wearing cross
n you and death but the more or less strong pressure of a highwayman’s finger on the trigger of a musket, is no easy task; but all this I accomplished, and once
k up Baron d’Aygaliers in passing through Lyons, so that during the rest of the journey the peacemaker had plenty of time to expatiate on his plans. As M. de Vi
eard say that the evil which your lordship laments was prior to the time to which you assign it, and that King James V. also had formerly favourites, both male 
nd make a descent on Aigues-Mortes or Cette,—and two thousand Huguenots were to arrive at the same time by way of Dauphine and join the others as they disembark
same direction all was dark. So M. de Broglie, concluding that nothing could be done against enemies who were invisible, disbanded the troops which had come to 
ter the head had been cut off. The queen’s servants had rushed upon the scaffold, picking up the book of Hours and the crucifix as relics; and Jeanne Kennedy, r
had conquered the poison, another kind of death was sought for. The queen, as she announces in her letter to Bothwell, had refused to bring back Darnley with he
wed, she ordered that they should be sold, and that the purchase-money should be used for her servants’ travelling expenses, when they returned to their own cou
es of God, while the devil which had entered into the lay sister was of a lower order, and was called Sabulon. Unfortunately, continued Mignon, just now the two
, and bayonets, a quantity of powder ready-made, and sulphur, saltpetre, and charcoal-in short, everything necessary for the manufacture of more, down to small 
n we had seen at Orgon, with two cockades, one white, and one tricoloured, and by peeping out from carriage windows we were able to see which was worn by the tr
 You, Miss Mary, give me that casket, and put on your head this basket of bread. Now, that’s right: do you feel you have strength?" "Yes," said the queen. "Yes,
ourteenth day—that is to say, forty-eight hours after the expiration of the delay granted; nevertheless, as the sentence had not yet been put into execution, MM
d reached Tubingen, to which he had been principally attracted by the reputation of Eschenmayer; he spent that winter quietly, and no other incident befell than
. Death to the son of Belial, death!" "Silence!" exclaimed the prophet in a terrible voice, "and listen to the word of God from my mouth. If this man will join 
re the latter left for Nimes, the following commission: "We, Marechal de Villars, general in the armies of the king, etc., etc., have given permission to M. d’A
moved and stopped, and answering the questions which His Majesty put to him in a respectful but formal and precise manner. Reaching the level on which Cavalier 
estroy the rebellion at one blow. He ordered M. de Courten, a brigadier-colonel in command at Alais, to take a detachment of the troops under him and patrol the
ues. This was the spot they had chosen to await attack in, being eager for the approaching combat. As soon as Cavalier saw the royals advancing, he ordered his 
 the Embassy, as if to pay him a civil visit, and while conversing said to him, "That it was very difficult to reconcile the safety of Queen Elizabeth with the 
Majesty’s resolve," replied Mary Seyton. "Our presence is then needless," said the old lady; "but in any case the table is served, and if her grace should have 
alive, however, she feared not to show, nor yet to twist and frizz as in the days when it was so beautiful and so fair.]—her noble open forehead, eyebrows which
aps, however, things would have gone on smoothly if Lady Lochleven, instead of remaining standing by the sideboard, had withdrawn after having tasted the variou
ng it carried out without change or omission; then, having read it over, and having received a promise from all, she gave it to Bourgoin, charging him to send i
rough ambition, two men only dared to protest beforehand against this union: the one was Lord Herries, and the other James Melville. Mary was at Stirling when L
the reason for his journey to the minister Cecil, and with begging him to ask his mistress for an audience next day. Elizabeth was dancing in a quadrille at the
ion, and went into all the details of the execution with him. Then Sand, perfectly instructed, begged him not to hurry and to take his time. Then he thanked him
dered five people, and was cast off by his own faction. For some time his wife, who was infirm and deformed, might be seen going from house to house asking alms
inal intercourse with a relative of his wife, and the Archbishop of St. Andrews, the same who had taken up his abode in that solitary house at Kirk of Field to 
he trouble that he took for the good of the country. On the march he invariably shared: anything that he possessed fraternally with his comrades, helping those 
be disturbed by the noise. All Mannheim was in the streets that led to the place of execution, and many patrols were passing up and down. On the day when the se
ared look at him, for fear of reading on his face the announcement that all was lost. In the evening the queen again questioned the light: it made the same answ
 we again offer you the venerable Dean of Peterborough, certain that your Grace will find more consolation and content in him than in any bishop, priest, or vic
 been on the point of leaving the town, but hearing the shot had turned back, believing that some of their brethren were being murdered. On seeing them appear, 
ay’s victim, and that is no doubt the reason that I am calling him to mind just now. But I was able to pardon him, Mary, and I was inflexible; I let ascend the 
ar in vain for the second quarter of his pension. At the end of this time, as his letters to Chamillard remained unanswered, and finding himself without resourc
e saw Melville, she pretended to fly into a passion, and even wanted to strike him; but her anger calmed down by little and little at the ambassador’s complimen
ere re-forming. Carried on by the rapidity of their course, the Camisards could not pull up till they were within a hundred yards of the enemy; they fired once,
ay 1820 the high court of justice delivered the following judgment, which was confirmed on the 12th by His Royal Highness the Grand-Duke of Baden: "In the matte
s were either the result of long meditation or were the inspiration of some clever strategist. The fact is that everything leads one to believe that it was a pl
ame spot, but there was a change in their positions. The prisoner was now kneeling with clasped hands before the cut-throats, begging for his life for the sake 
eed not have been afraid; the Camisard chief, who was accustomed to rely on all his men as on himself, had gone to bed without any suspicion, having full confid
ed, "I have in my carriage yonder an interpreter, or rather an interpretress, with whom you will, I hope, be quite satisfied, who speaks German like Goethe, and
t two o’clock A. M. the same envoy returned, and announced to the general that the conditions had been accepted with one alteration, which was that the troops, 
e with sadness, having caused her to sigh more and to shed more tears than the loss of all her relations, so much the more that the Queen of Scotland was her ne
 shot under him, and M. de Montrevel replaced it by one of great value, on which he joined in the pursuit of the Camisards. After this affair M. de Montrevel ga
a sword. Continue, my lord," the queen went on, turning to Lord Ruthven: "is this all that my subjects require of me? A date and a signature? Ah! doubtless it i
ed them off despite their struggles, and pushing them behind some empty barrels, over which he threw an old piece of carpet, said to them in a voice as solemn a
t she should give as security for this undertaking the King of France, and all the princes and lords, his relations and friends. To this answer, the queen, with
an, he implored M. de Trappes to allow him to cross the Channel with him and the French envoys. M. de Trappes referred him to M. de Chateauneuf, who answered Mr
tart.’ "She was going to put on her bonnet, but I told her to leave it behind; for it was most important that no one should think we suspected anything, but wer
esitate to present it in its entirety to our readers:— "To all my own "Loyal and eternally cherished souls "Why add still further to your sadness? I asked mysel
f the frustrated escape: next day, at the appointed hour, the two prisoners shut up the lamp in the bedroom, so that no light should betray them, and Mary Seyto
ad fifty men under him. Prophets and prophetesses too increased apace, so that hardly a day passed without reports being heard of fresh ones who were rousing wh
 from Bergerac, formed themselves into a body of ’Cadets of the Cross,’ and hastened to serve their apprenticeship to the work of assassination at the cost of t
his men would not be able to hold their own in such a throng, the captain ordered M. Delbose, one of his officers, to ride off and warn the general. He forced h
, drew attention to this anomaly, whereupon the Catholic general replied, "Better more chicken and less treason." This attack was so direct, that although the P
mless curiosity of which he seemed to be the object was indeed odd. I hastened to give him Mr. G——’s letter and to tell him what reason brought me. Then he grad
s to reach the same result. Seeing the efforts that young Sand made, even while still quite a child, to conquer the defects of his organisation, Professor Salfr
ere, and the conflict began among friends who should have been united against the enemy. Finally, the two troops, leaving behind them some corpses stifled in th
There is still time," replied Ruthven, "and Mary, in her present situation, will not be severe upon you: perhaps she has resolved to appeal to the judgment of G
an!" "He is not dead," said a third voice; "listen to him singing"; and indeed the poor fellow in his agony was giving utterance to dreadful groans. "Someone ha
m, and the light in the little house disappeared in its turn. Mary again questioned the pulsations of her heart, and, fast as it leaped, before the twelfth beat
ceed in his aims, and their jealousy had made them resolve to forestall him in his work, by themselves inducing Cavalier to abandon his present course. They did
more. From this moment he was occupied by nothing but this single idea, and he continued slowly to mature the plan in his head in order to familiarise himself w
at Caveyrac. On this day Cavalier reached the turning-point in his magnificent career. As he entered the town with his soldiers, drums beating and flags flying,
, and several voices cried, "To the stake, the adulteress! To the stake, the parricide!" However, Mary bore these outrages stoically enough but a more terrible 
 executed in his bed, they hoped that the physician’s report, by declaring it impossible for the prisoner to rise, would come to their assistance and necessitat
m now too old to bear fatigue, and I have, always been too proud to endure sarcasms." "Really, Seyton," cried Mary, seeming to recollect herself, "we had not dr
the priests is most ridiculous. Besides your remonstrances, of which I hope I have now heard the last, I have received numberless letters full of such complaint
n such a high undertaking, he had already made most of the preparations for the ceremony, which was to take place on the 10th of August, that is to say, two day
rward dead, shot through the heart. The name of the dragoon who killed him was Soubeyrand. Maillie, Grimaud, Coutereau, Guerin, and Ressal, the five Camisard of
 honours of the day were his. We have related this anecdote in detail, that our readers may understand from the character of the child what was that of the man.
er should be cloudy, that darkness might aid them in their flight. While the two prisoners were watching the billowy, moving vapours, the hour of dinner arrived
 you to Lochleven Castle, your future residence. And yet, scarcely have I arrived there than I shall be obliged to leave you to go and assist the Confederate lo
 prophets struck up a psalm, and the rest of the soldiers joining in, his voice was completely drowned. Nevertheless, Cavalier did not lose heart, but accompani
nes we have just related, Bothwell suddenly appeared at the Bridge of Grammont with a thousand horsemen, and, having disarmed the Earl of Huntly, Livingston, an
is ancestors, and Mary Stuart ascended the throne of France, where, from mourning for Henry, she passed to that for her mother, and from mourning for her mother
ong, it is so solemn and so antique in spirit, that we do not hesitate to present it in its entirety to our readers:— "To all my own "Loyal and eternally cheris
und that it had been spread abroad by M. Vincent de Saint-Laurent, a councillor of the Prefecture and one of the most respected men in Nimes. He was summoned at
 of attention just now as the queen has need of repose: do you not consider it is time for you to withdraw?" "Yes, yes," said William, "to give you time to spin
amped her foot several times, and when he had finished, unable to control herself, cried, "God’s death! there’s a dainty fellow, always talking of his fidelity 
hat I find myself obliged to refuse your Grace’s, request; but it would be contrary to our religion and our conscience, and we should be culpable in doing it; t
fired at him, and killed him on the spot. Such was the reward of the devoted patriotism of Baron d’Aygaliers! Meantime Roland’s troops had increased greatly in 
ness of the new religion she had adopted. William Douglas, who was the eldest son of Lord Lochleven, on his mother’s side half-brother of Murray, was a man of f
 because these statutes and laws are not made for persons of her condition. To this the chancellor replied that the commission intended to proceed against her, 
m La Vaunage, where he had been making recruits, when this good news arrived; he at once sent his nephew Roland to the new allies with power to pledge his word 
at the history of our time may not be covered with eternal ignominy, it is necessary that he should fall. "I have always said that if we wish to find a great an
mands that the whole world should be aware that you have followed me freely." "Sir," replied Mary Stuart, "I ask your pardon, in the name of this worthy servant
re began to address to her with respect, but at the same time with firmness, his master’s remonstrances. Elizabeth listened to them with an impatient air, fidge
her, and would take its maintenance upon herself. To have brought a child into the world under such circumstances was a sin, but not a crime; Trinquant was ther
 your Majesty must call to your aid that courage of which you have given such great proofs." "If I have need only of courage and coolness," replied the queen, "
d grenadiers. He had already put three-quarters of the way behind him without being discovered, when an Englishman met them by chance. This man was serving unde
ons of certain saints were invoked, as for instance Saints Augustine Jerome, Antony, and Mary Magdalene. Barre next directed the mother superior to dedicate her
rs ended, they marched down the hill to the town, singing psalms, and shouting between the verses to the townspeople to keep within their homes, and not to look
d do as I have done, to gain my liberty; for there is not a man or woman in the world, of less rank than I, who would not do it, and who would not make use of t
is which he believed deserted; next day he asked Alexander Durham whence it came, and he heard that the Archbishop of St. Andrew’s had left his palace in Edinbu
p, and as Darnley still wished to keep her— "Indeed, my lord, it is impossible," said she, "to come and see you. I have left this poor Sebastian’s wedding, and 
 ask what had become of the order I had just written, for it could not be found. They surrounded me, saying that I had not written it at all, and I was on the p
riah passing by cut him down and succoured him, and reports of his martyrdom having spread, the French ambassador demanded justice with no uncertain voice, so t
t the latter, confiding in the courage of his soldiers and unwilling to share with anyone the glory of a victory of which he felt assured, not only sent away M.
ho was unaccustomed to such language, laid his hand on the hilt of his sword, Roland, stepping back, drew his, and the consultation would have ended in a duel i
o had accompanied him to his appointed place, left him to rejoin the king. However, in a few moments he did what embarrassed people so often do, hid his shyness
cause to the high court of Parliament, with instructions that the case against Duthibaut should be tried and decided there. Hereupon Urbain’s enemies saw they h
 the morning had left for Aubore. Resolved to give them no rest, M. de Broglie set out at once for this village. When half-way there, a member of his staff thou
ery lowest class. It was added that this Porterfeld, or Porterfield, was the real father of the child who had already received the name of James Stuart, and who
ing this promise they all met on their way back at a small farmhouse. Just as they reached it a terrible storm came on. The men were for continuing their way in
ng forced us," says she, "to walk into the forest till we were at some distance from the high road, my poor mistress grew so tired that she begged the man who w
years after the defeat of Flodden, on whose battlefield he left his two sons and two hundred warriors of the name of Douglas, it passed into the hands of the Ea
 asked of her. The queen was not mistaken: next day, as she was at her window, Little Douglas came to play at the foot of the tower, and, without raising his he
 before we had been five minutes in our hiding-place the murderers rushed out on the road, looking for us in every direction, without the slightest suspicion th
 had already set one foot on the window-ledge, when suddenly the cry, "Who goes there?" rang out at the foot of the tower. The queen sprang quickly back, partly
he Rhone, it struck me as peculiar that such quiet should prevail on one bank, while such fierce conflict was raging on the other. I did not doubt that somethin
eard the shrieks of a man who was being murdered. They were the first cries of agony I had ever heard, and for a few moments, I confess, I was frozen with terro
h good affection as I do for my part, I hope that things may come to a good conclusion, and that my subjects will have some respite from the great evils and cal
offered." All the further advantage that Cavalier could obtain from M. de Villars was that the treaty should bear the date of the day on which it had been drawn
 borrowed fresh mournfulness still from the hour at which it appeared to the queen’s gaze. It was, so far as she could judge amid the mists rising from the lake
artyrdom of St. Ursula and her eleven thousand virgins gave rise, had long hindered the foundation of an order in the saint’s honour. However, in 1560 Madame An
 a tailor, asking him to remake it to his measure, the man recognised it as having belonged to the king. "That’s right," said he; "it is the custom for the exec
 leave the tower, make his way as best he might through the enemy’s army, and go to summon the other lads of Wonsiedel, who had faint-heartedly remained at home
ut George, instead of replying, advanced to the queen, and, kneeling on one knee, drew from his breast a paper which he presented to her. Mary took it with amaz
and forward!" "Come, my faithful kinsmen!" cried Lord Arbroath, dashing forward on his side with the same object; "come, my men-at-arms! For God and the queen!"
 Villars an account of what had happened, who would then take measures to put things straight. "You are right," said Cavalier; "as I have so many enemies, the g
in her prison, without other means of communication with her adherents than the flickering and uncertain light of a lamp, and three days afterwards—that is to s
EAR KARL,—How Sweet it was to me to see the writing of your beloved hand after so long a time! No journey would have been so painful and no road so long as to p
, and then the pile was lit under Ravanel. As had been foreseen, this precaution gave great pleasure to those people who took delight in witnessing executions. 
ld out against such numbers, Francezet gave the signal for retreat, calling out, "Sauve qui petit!" at the same instant he jumped out of a lattice window twenty
y had come to ask his permission to put forward the time; for, they told him, some collision between the students and the soldiers was feared, and as the milita
 scheme on which her liberty hung was discovered, and when, at breakfast and at dinner time, William Douglas entered as usual, she hardly dared look at him, for
ing me to the scaffold?" Mr. G——made a sign of assent with his head, for he could not answer. Sand took his arm, and spoke for the third time, saying once more,
 Paris in 1817. He describes his mode of action in the following words:— It is not difficult to understand that being faithful to my religion and my king, and s
War, Our Minister of the Interior, and Our Minister of Police, are entrusted with the execution of this edict. "Given at Paris at Our Castle of the Tuileries on
 the queen and the kingdom of England. "As to that," replied Mary Stuart, "it is another matter, and I do not deny it; and if it was again to do, I should do as
n had declared that his brethren would never lay down their arms till full liberty of conscience had been secured to them. In consequence of this declaration, i
 offering to lay down their arms, and in one day thirty rebels came in and put themselves into Lalande’s hands, while twenty surrendered to Grandval; these were
nce jealous night heaps mourning upon mourning, casting a black veil before my sight. Adieu then, one last time, dear France; for never shall I see you more." W
now. But I was able to pardon him, Mary, and I was inflexible; I let ascend the scaffold a man whose only crime was in loving me too well; and now I am astonish
oods and privileges be restored to them. ’Granted on condition that they take the oath of fidelity to the king. "4. That the Parliament of Languedoc be reestabl
oubles of the kingdom and deliver me from my captivity, without my having ever been honoured with a reply from her; and all this, my lords, you well know. Final
 out in four different directions to announce to the queen’s friends her happy escape, they brought her a horse saddled for her, which she mounted with her usua
ok all possible precautions. Under the pretext that he was going to-have a general review, he brought the entire civil and military forces of Nimes under his au
resentiments; then the year 1814 arrived, and he thought Germany free. On the 10th of December in the same year he left Richembourg with this certificate from h
he queen declined. All day long the bell and the bugle resounded: Lord Douglas, like a true feudal lord, travelled with the retinue of a prince. One saw nothing
t filled my heart with joy almost too great to bear. "Her adventures were the following: "My wife and her mother had gone to our house, as agreed upon, to pack 
n his turn, made a step towards the queen; but seeing Mary Seyton standing behind her— "Madam," said he, "I wished to speak with your Majesty alone: shall I not
e; besides, as a good son, he will have desired to acquaint his mother with the unlooked-for greatness that has befallen him." "Yes, madam," replied William, "w
 Sainte-Croix, and he, although he felt deeply hurt that they had not thought first of him, accepted the position eagerly; but the recollection that Grandier ha
 had been obtained from you by violence alone, and our devotion to your Majesty is increased thereby, if possible." "But, after all, what have you done?" "The S
t my fault, madam," said the executioner, "if this last wish of your Majesty cannot be fulfilled; but, not having been instructed to bring a sword, and having f
 crowd, however, had run at our cries. For two hours they sought far him with boats and drag-hooks; and at last they succeeded in drawing his body from the gulf
at slander was secretly closing him round, and that as soon as he was well entangled in her shiny folds, she would reveal herself by raising her abhorred head, 
, and their goods confiscated. The next three were to be hanged. Jean Delacroix, partly because of his youth, but more because of the revelations he made, was o
 assemblies by force, as having been always illegal, and we desire to impress on the new converts of this province that they are to give their obedience where i
killed his horse. The dragoon returned the shot, but missed. Cavalier had two horses killed under him; the first time he caught a dragoon’s horse, the second ti
eather. Cavalier and his travelling-companion went direct to the garden of the Recollets, and hardly had they got there than MM. de Villars and de Baville, acco
ejoin you." "What!" said the queen, "the four chosen persons cannot even follow me now?" "The order is thus given by the earls," answered the sheriff, "and, to 
d stainless heart, in order to be the support of his mother and his sisters. "A man can do much when he wishes to do much: join your efforts to my prayers, and 
sh the tranquillity of the State, so cruelly compromised by the errors that they are going to repair." "And shall I be permitted, my lord, to read these documen
ived?" "Perhaps," George said, "but it is better to die as a queen than to live in this ancient castle calumniated and a prisoner." "You are right, George," the
 rescue. M. de Julien, born a Protestant, was a, member of the nobility of Orange, and in his youth had served against France and borne arms in England and Irel
ing zeal with which I was filled for the service of the greatest of earthly kings, but that I should be unworthy of the least of his favours if I obtained it by
this moment; the excitement is intense, blood has already flowed, and a catastrophe is imminent.’ So back we went to our mountain castle, but in a few days beca
s. It is easy to understand the effect of such a story. The people gathered together in groups; the mayor and his assistant being absent, Bertrand was taken bef
e castle; it is Little Douglas." Scarcely had he finished speaking when the door of the queen’s apartment opened, and William Douglas and Lady Lochleven, preced
to visit their relations. The following is a copy of the form used for these passports: "We, the undersigned, secretary to Brother Cavalier, generalissimo of th
 recognised to a certainty. "I always return, in spite of myself, to the frightful attempt that you advise. You compel me to concealments, and above all to trea
 he was forced to give it up to the representative of the marshal’s widow. Yet this man was an officer, and kept his rank all through the Restoration, and was n
Wurmeser (for the abbe administered the estate of Aureillac in his own name and that of the baroness), galloped into the village of Arpaillargues, which was alm
ion with me, you will not believe. What else should impel me to die if not my devotion to you and to Germany, and the need of proving this devotion to my family
had entrusted his pact with the devil, under the symbol of a bunch of roses, to a certain Jean Pivart, to give to a girl who had introduced it into the convent 
d seeing that they had reached a lonely spot, replied, ’We need hardly go any farther,’ and made us sit dawn on a plot of grass which was to be the scene of our
ad seen Mary Stuart for the last time. CHAPTER VIII On landing on the shores of England, the Queen of Scotland found messengers from Elizabeth empowered to expr
t time, he resolved to subject his day to fixed and uniform rules, and to write down every evening what he had done since the morning. It is by the help of this
 the hour when this enchantress crossed thy threshold!" "Do not say that, mother, do not say that," cried George; "blessed be, on the contrary, the moment which
 was not yet accustomed; but quickly containing her anger, as far as possible— "But still, my lord," said she, "however disposed I may be to take you as you are
rds her, while she laid the other on her heart— "It is nothing," said she; "I shall be better in a moment. Yes, Mary, yes, as you said, it is a fatal name and m
s taken a prisoner, Jean-Louis’ coat being recognised, and brought to the town hall, where the mistake was discovered. The Genevois meantime got into a dark str
e knife from the wound, he gave himself a second blow below the former, and fell insensible. Sand was carried to the hospital and guarded with the utmost strict
m she had always been perfectly kind, whom from Prior of St. Andrew’s she had made an earl in bestowing on him the splendid estates which formed part of the old
ifteen patriotic citizens without weapons, and hurried to the town hall: There he found two officials of the town, and begged them to go at once to the place de
ch without me had no existence. Where were the miscreants cowardly enough to murder a woman of eighteen who belonged to no-party and had never injured anyone? A
 effect of this gloomy abode, while, on the contrary, the eye wandering from it and passing from islands to islands, lost itself in the west, in the north, and 
ms and heart to George: it resulted from this mutual liking that one day, when the child had committed I do not know what fault, and that William Douglas raised
. A man, whom nothing precedes and nothing follows, is born, lives, and dies in a longer or shorter time, which, relatively to eternity, hardly equals the durat
eally attached, to the exclusion of the two others, the king’s and the Earl of Murray’s. Bothwell was already thirty-five years old, head of the powerful family
anchored at the mouth of the Clyde, Mary, after having been hotly pursued by the English fleet, entered Brest harbour, 15th August, 1548, one year after the dea
g it to the notice of the king; but M. de Villars, who was well acquainted with the obstinacy of Louis, who, as Baron de Peken says, "only saw the Reformers thr
d Paulhan. During this attack the church was respected; a man from Sornmieres, however, stole a pyx which he found in the sacristy, but as soon as his comrades 
ight go up the steps. During that short ascent pain kept him bowed, but when he had reached the top he stood erect again, saying, "Here then is the place where 
oncerned the arrangements for the interview. M. de Villars let him know that he would expect him on the 16th in the garden of the convent of the Recollets of Ni
ample set them by their brothers from Beaucaire. In twenty-four hours free companies were formed, headed by Trestaillons, Trupheny, Graffan, and Morinet. These 
was killed in a moment. One of his fingers was cut off to get at a diamond ring which he wore, his pockets were rifled of his purse and watch, and his body was 
on to fire down at their enemies. M. de Dourville, in command of the dragoons, fought among the others like a simple soldier, and received a serious wound in th
at; he wore a cross-belt from which depended his sword, and on his head a gold-laced hat of black felt. He was mounted on a magnificent bay horse, the same whic
’s soldiers asked no further counsel of anyone but themselves, and, as one of them has already told us, sixty-four of them joined together to hire a guide who w
 secretly through those parts of the country known to be infected with fanaticism, and made all necessary arrangements, such as amassing powder and lead, muniti
enius; then, when he had entirely finished it, he reconsidered his first impression, and wrote:— "4th May "Oh, horrible struggle of man and devil! What Mephisto
ns we have given above, produced exactly the contrary effect to that intended. The inhabitants of the proscribed districts were convinced that the order to gath
ed in forming around him a considerable circle of the most intelligent and the best; nevertheless, in the midst of these apostolic labours strange longings for 
seen, the wood of St. Benazet, and passed the night there. At break of day the royals from Dommersargues began their advance. The Camisard outposts soon perceiv
 Ross, her chaplain in chief; and M. du Ruysseau, her chancellor, all four certainly very worthy of the charge, the first from his authority; the two bishops by
e stables, where the assassins left him for dead, with seven wounds in his body. This was, however, the only murder committed that day in the town, thanks to th
n’s arm on one side and Mary Seyton’s on the other, he hurried them away quickly to the lake-side. When passing through the doorway Mary Stuart could not help t
they had so greatly loved. However, one hour after Mary Stuart’s death, Henry Talbot, who had been present at it, set out at full speed for London, carrying to 
tter luck. While the two struggles as related above were going on, he slipped unnoticed to an open window and got out into the street. He ran round the corner o
s that we should deprive ourselves of those that her visits cannot fail to procure us." "Unfortunately, madam," replied Lady Lochleven, whom Mary was keeping st
threatened them. Mignon had, however, already begun to weave the threads of a new intrigue, which he explained in full to the others; they lent a favourable ear
 pitchforks, and bayonets attached to sticks. Hardly a man survived the fray. Ravanel himself only succeeded in escaping by throwing himself into the river, whe
olics—assumed the white cockade, although it was no longer the national emblem, and on the 1st May some of the militia who had planted a maypole at the mayor’s 
hts were seen moving and glancing about, as if distracted, in the rooms. "Courage, children!" said Douglas. "Row as if your lives depended on each stroke of the
’Aygaliers in passing through Lyons, so that during the rest of the journey the peacemaker had plenty of time to expatiate on his plans. As M. de Villars was a 
xty-seventh anniversary of your birth, and you bless me by the outpouring of your most tender love. "You, my well-beloved mother, you deign to promise the conti
s. Boeton, who had been denounced by Villas when under torture (and who thereby abridged his agony) as the person in whose house the plot to carry off the Duke 
der. "Where are you leading us?" she asked him with terror. "Out of the castle," replied the child. "But we shall have to pass through the great hall?" "Without
ring trust in God, on him alone devolved all the sacred duties of his office, from the visitation of the sick and dying to the baptism of the newly born. These 
hat she had need of an airing. The poor prisoner, who for three years had only seen the country through her prison bars, joyfully accepted, and left Tutbury bet
but finally the artificial white yielded, and the snow-like pallor of her face vanquished the other. For it was thus," he adds, "that from the moment she became
 faithful to my religion and my king, and shocked at the seditious ideas which were disseminated on all sides, I should try to inspire others with the same spir
umble and obedient servant, "CAVALIER." D’Aygaliers, as soon as he got possession of this letter, set out for Nimes in the best of spirits; for he felt sure tha
lf really in him. Besides, I have never seen him so small and humble; and if I had not known how easily his heart overflows, and how mine is impervious to every
e representative of Louis XIV, a mutilated though still living man, instead of the corpse which had been demanded. At the time when Louis XIV was meditating the
uch a high undertaking, he had already made most of the preparations for the ceremony, which was to take place on the 10th of August, that is to say, two days l
 and your benefices above all will be secured to you. Farewell, for I have not much more time. Send to me in writing everything you can find, best for my salvat
e mayor, the second the president of the Consistory, and the third a member of the Prefecture, all three belonging to the Reformed religion, received the same f
se above honour, remorse, and dangers. Do not take in bad part what I tell you, and do not listen to the malicious explanations of your wife’s brother; he is a 
d hastily what I had written down on my tablets, and my paper has given out. Remember a tender friend, and write to her often: love me as tenderly as I love you
eth, true to her character, cried out in grief and indignation, saying that her orders had been misunderstood, that there had been too great haste, and that all
hundred persons of the Reformed religion. M. de Villars received the request kindly, thanked its bearer and those who accompanied him, assuring them that he had
r the reading of his sentence, and as the sentence had not been read to him till half-past ten Sand had a right to live till eleven o’clock. Before four in the 
account of his ecclesiastical position to awe rebels who had taken up arms in the name of religion. The abbe himself gives the following account of the manner i
l the necessaries for a woman’s toilet. The queen was astonished: it was like being in a fairy castle. "Mignonne," said she, looking one after another at the ro
n’s finger on the trigger of a musket, is no easy task; but all this I accomplished, and once more got through the village with a whole skin indeed, but with th
es us enough constant care, business, and trouble. "I have again to-day felt a profound desire to quit this world and enter a higher world; but this desire is r
men, so that his intestines obtruded; pushing them back, he reached his house in a terrible condition, to the great alarm of his wife, who was near her confinem
ennox, the only one of the family remaining in Elizabeth’s power, had been arrested and taken to the Tower. Thus Elizabeth, in spite of her dissimulation, yield
ime, M. Daunant, M. Olivier Desmonts, and M. de Seine, the first the mayor, the second the president of the Consistory, and the third a member of the Prefecture
nisation. These societies, which had received a mortal wound in 1806 and were now controlled by the French police, instead of continuing to meet in public, were
have never meddled with political affairs, and no one can have anything against me. No one will think of looking for you here.’ "The captain had friends in the 
er, as they had no vessels; moreover, when their hard day’s work was at an end, they had but a handful of straw on which to lie. These privations, added to thei
ber that that weak barrier did not hinder Graham, that Catherine Douglas’s arm was broken like a willow wand, and that James I was killed like a dog." "But you,
r as any lawyer could have done, and called upon the judges to pronounce sentence. All the judges agreed that the prisoners should be put to death, but just as 
im of it in every detail; tell him that I wish him well, and that I beseech God to send him His Holy Spirit." "Madam," replied Melville, "this is certainly the 
; that of Saint-Etienne de Valfrancesque was of still greater extent, and its population was a third larger, so that obstacles to the work multiplied in a remar
 consider myself most unfortunate in that I have been able to accomplish nothing deserving of the gracious words which your Majesty deigns to address me, and I 
ill, had an indisposition that obliged him to go and take the waters; his mother happened at the time to be at the ironworks of Redwitz, some twelve or fifteen 
omestics who were barring the passage; "make way for the young master of Douglas, or woe to you!". "Stop him!" cried William. "Seize him, dead or alive! Fire up
 most faithful people, the jewels she intended for the king and queen of France, for the king her son, for the queen-mother, for Messieurs de Guise and de Lorra
ad a glass given to each one: all kneeled down, and all, says the account from which we borrow these details, drank, mingling their tears with the wine, and ask
d also been betrayed by some peasants whom he had asked for assistance. The first punishment inflicted on Castanet was, that he was compelled to carry in his ha
 world of science to him and given him the key to a thousand things which were mysteries to the ignorant, but which he fathomed with the greatest ease. Furtherm
e idea which the reader may have formed already of this great-hearted woman, as her son always calls her. "DEAR, INEXPRESSIBLY DEAR KARL,—How Sweet it was to me
y mission was revealed to me for the first time, and that this love for which till then, I had reproached myself as a crime, was on the contrary a favour from G
e, but without a tear in her eye, "it is no time for weeping, quite the contrary; for if you love me, you ought to rejoice that the Lord, in making me die for H
 a queen; for, not having had a moment during the day to attend to her toilet, her hair was falling in disorder about her shoulders, her face was pale and showe
 The queen was not a little astonished, then, when in a few minutes Mary Seyton returned and informed her that George Douglas, having sent away the servants, de
 one of several detachments under the orders of Commandant Magne and General Vogue. In the middle of a forest near a village, the name of which I do not know, M
to be that of M. R____, inspector of reviews. Several carried muskets. I pointed out to my companion a stain of blood on the trousers of one of the men, who beg
r could give you information." With these words, Mary Stuart rose, and, leaving William Douglas crimson with rage, she returned into her bedroom, and bolted the
owerful tribunal established at Nimes to see that this rule were strictly kept, you would soon see Protestantism disappear. "The Protestants demand to share all
nd every bush as cover. He therefore hastened with Grimaud and four other officers who had gathered round him towards a small back gate which opened on the fiel
im, stretching out his arms and shouting, "Stop! stop! misguided men! Are you going to kill Brother Cavalier like a highwayman and thief? You must pardon him, m
she would send him someone, he gave Durham leave for that evening. At that moment Paris; of whom the queen speaks in her letters, came in: he was a young French
 mouth, the harbingers of death. Once more the infamous slander which a hundred times had been proved to be false, raised its voice with dogged persistence, ass
 he made, was only sent to the galleys. Several years later he was liberated and returned to Arles, and was carried off by the plague in 1720. All these sentenc
behaved like an honest man, it is true; but at court it is better to behave as a clever man. Go away, then, as quickly as possible; it is I who recommend it." M
. As, after mature deliberation, it seems the most suitable thing for me to serve with the Bavarians. I shall get myself enrolled, for as long as the war may la
ust entered the great hall. The guests, seated on both sides of a long table ranged according to the rank of those assembled at it, were beginning dessert, and 
est which hid them like a veil, made the difficulty still greater; whole days were often lost by the workmen and militia in searching for the dwellings they cam
ck in the afternoon, and he would place him on the grand staircase, up which the king would pass. Cavalier put on his handsomest clothes, for the first time in 
Italy, the same who had maintained so gallant a struggle against Prince Eugene. When Maurel returned home he could talk of nothing but his marshal and his campa
 few minutes before their pursuers, and the innkeeper had enough presence of mind to conceal them and open the garden gate by which he said they had escaped. Th
. Roses. D. Quis misfit? By whom wert thou sent? At this question the magistrates remarked that the superior hesitated to reply; twice she opened her mouth in v
 during which Cavalier lost five hundred men and slew a thousand of the enemy. At last he won through, followed by about two hundred of his troops, and drew a l
r; and there is the proof," he added, showing the letter, "that you had forgotten your promise before we thought of revoking ours." "And at what o’clock is my d
t was; she had replied, "Pauper magus" (a poor magician); that he then had pressed her as to the word magus, and that she had replied "Magicianus et civis" (mag
nd galleys, and come to the help of the king in his war against the allied powers, by supplying him in a moment with a large body of disciplined troops ready to
t, we won’t shoot yet; let us give him time to see death coming," till at last the poor wretch, seeing there was no hope of mercy, begged to be put out of his m
leme, Commander-in-Chief of the royal army in the South, and Baron de Gilly, General of Division and Commander-in-Chief of the first corps of the Imperial Army,
d, than all her strength deserted her, and, sinking into an arm-chair, she burst out sobbing. Indeed, all her courage had been needed to sustain her so far, and
 approached, and Mary could then observe that it was bringing back to the castle a new passenger, who, having in his turn taken the oars, made the little skiff 
el, a major, a lieutenant-major, an adjutant, twenty-four captains, twenty-four lieutenants, seventy-two sergeants, seventy-two corporals, and eleven hundred an
The young girl was so beautiful that she was commonly called la belle Isabeau, and the Marquis de Florac, instead of pursuing Jean Cavalier, occupied himself in
for the dragoons. After this piece of bravado he went away, and in a few moments a note arrived, couched in the following terms: "The bishop’s porter is warned 
complete it was to go, under his command, to Spain, and fight for the king. M. de Villars was still on the same friendly terms with him, treating him, not like 
of figured black satin, and underneath she wore stays, laced behind, in crimson satin, edged with velvet of the same colour; a gold cross hung by a pomander cha
had already gone out, so that it was not until eleven o’clock and after repeated applications that they condescended to give me the needed authorisation. Thanks
ating that the ill-embalmed body could no longer be kept, at last ordered the funeral to take place. Accordingly, after the 1st of August, tailors and dressmake
s they walked away. Being anxious to see if it was too late to help the man whom I had not been able to save, I went out into the street and bent over him. He w
re at some distance from the high road, my poor mistress grew so tired that she begged the man who walked beside her to allow her to lean on his shoulder. He lo
t," said Cavalier. "Very well," continued M. de Villars; "halt at Calvisson, and try all you can to induce the other leaders to follow your example." "I shall d
ted the reading of his breviary, because that would be contrary to the truth, seeing that on several occasions he borrowed mine and read his hours in it. I also
 villagers—in fact, they obstinately refused to let them out of their hands, and by doing so increased the suspicions of the people. A parley of a very excited 
nat, raised his cane to strike him; but Moses and Daniel Guy threw themselves between, so that the blow aimed at Catinat fell on Moses. At the same moment Catin
ted. The lords conferred together; and a moment after the Earl of Kent inquired which ones she desired to have, saying she might be allowed six. So the queen ch
n, Sand, who had become more active, skilful, and determined than many of his elders, often amused himself by giving battle to the lads of the town and of the n
ugh his head. Three electors—M. Massador from near Beaucaire, M. Vialla from the canton of Lasalle, and M. Puech of the same place-were attacked by red-tufts on
he other of us: that is all. "As to my secretaries," added the queen, "not they, but torture spoke by their mouths: and as to the confessions of Babington and h
ing returned, much put out at the harmony of the assembly being disturbed by this dissent; but the alms-offering took place no less than the sermon. Then, as a 
k Melville by the hand, and drawing him into the embrasure of a window, "My dear Melville," said he, "you were certainly mad when you just now imparted this let
suffering a single complaint to escape him: he had spoken the truth; in the presence of death God gave him the grace of allowing his strength to return. The ope
he funeral procession were to assemble, in number more than three hundred and fifty, all chosen, with the exception of the servants, from among the authorities,
 have him beheaded. To which Melville answered— "That at the risk of his life he would never spare his master good advice; and that, on the contrary, he who wou
but to retake it. Argyll saw that the whole day’s struggle would be concentrated there, and, understanding more and more the importance of the village, immediat
come to the governor than this important information: he made the most careful disposition of his forces, hoping to destroy the rebellion at one blow. He ordere
he fires, and with the help of the Huguenot inhabitants were, to slaughter the garrison, seize the citadel, and carry off the Duke of Berwick and M. de Baville.
ll was over and there was no longer any question of saving the marshal, M. Moulin desired at least to save the valuables which he had in his carriage. He found 
 the scenes we have just related, Bothwell suddenly appeared at the Bridge of Grammont with a thousand horsemen, and, having disarmed the Earl of Huntly, Living
Ravanel about a quarter of a league from the town, waiting to know the result of the negotiations. They were accompanied by MM. de Montbel and de Maison-Blanche
uel grief I throw, For loss beyond compare; In bitter sighs and tears Go by my fairest years. Was ever grief like mine Imposed by destiny? Did ever lady pine, I
g us, if it pleases you, your good reply. "London, this 16th day of December 1586. "(Signed) DE BELLIEVRE, "And DE L’AUBESPINE CHATEAUNEUF." The same day, M. de
ered the forty commissioners to assemble, and proceed without intermission to the trial of the prisoner. They arrived at Fotheringay the 14th October 1586; and 
ed by twenty gentlemen on horseback, with their servants and lackeys, all dressed in mourning, who, having alighted, mounted with his whole train into the room 
lessly despatched. The gendarmes, who had really been called out to protect the retreat of the garrison, seemed to imagine they were there to witness a judicial
, as may be seen, the suppression of the revolt proceeded apace; only two young Camisard chiefs were still at large, both of whom had formerly served under Cava
g in spite of himself, and while he returned the greetings made to him on all sides, he murmured in a low voice, "O my God, give me courage!" This first outburs
 that his life is aimed at. He is in despair whenever the conversation turns on you, Livingston, and my brother. However, he says neither good nor ill of absent
red when he recalled the character for loyalty which the marechal bore, and how impossible it was that d’Aygaliers should lend himself to treachery. So Cavalier
eart of fire, was quiet; like the wounded who have lost the best part of their blood, she thought only, with the egotism of a convalescent, of being left in pea
ction and justice. Mary Stuart was so blinded that she did not see the trap, and immediately offered to prove her innocence to the satisfaction of her sister El
y path—Francis II, Chatelard, Rizzio, Darnley.... Oh to attach one’s self to my fortunes more than love is needed now heroism and devotion are requisite so much
ow long the work would take if the means employed were only iron tools and the human hand, instead of fire, the only true instrument employed by Heaven in its v
ning that General Briche was a prisoner, the messenger carried his packet to the colonel of the 63rd Regiment, who was the next in seniority after the general. 
icked up the two heads, and fastening them to his saddlebow, rejoined his soldiers with his bloody trophies,—that is to say, he joined the largest group of sold
lled a soldier, gave him a purse of gold, and charged him to take this letter to Dunbar, where Bothwell ought to be, and if he were already gone, to follow him 
 seeing the result of so much labour destroyed in one day, set off for the mountains to try and find Cavalier. He found him at Cardet, whither, as we have said,
hose orders may be; but I should have been able, on many occasions since coming here, to display my zeal for your Majesty’s service in other ways if I had not h
s his house. "’Captain,’ said I to him, ’they are murdering each other in the town, we are pursued and without asylum, so we come to you.’ ’That’s right, my chi
edged that this was true; it was she who used to get up in the middle of the night, and open the dormitory door, which her more timid room-mates locked most car
e himself gives the following account of the manner in which he fulfilled this mandate: "About seven o’clock in the evening I was engaged with MM. Porthier and 
 her wild country; but her uncles, at least some of them, not all, advised her, and even urged her to it, and deeply repented their error." Mary was obedient, a
 been dug: it was a grave of brick, arranged to be covered later with a slab or a marble tomb, and in which was to be deposited the coffin, which the Bishop of 
ately recommenced her journey; for Lord Lindsay had declared that he wished to reach his destination that same evening. Indeed, as the sun was setting, Mary per
 him to M. de Chateauneuf, who answered Mr. Stafford directly that he had not only forbidden him his house, but also all relations with any person from the Emba
as she had been timid a moment before, mounted on a stool, and had already set one foot on the window-ledge, when suddenly the cry, "Who goes there?" rang out a
 the theological studies necessary for becoming a pastor, as he desired to do, he wrote to them:— "I confess that, like all my brothers and sisters, I owe to yo
and have died almost without any result and without any hope; and yet thousands of fresh martyrs keep up their courage and are ready to fall in their turn; and 
s who were called in, were not mortal; one of them even healed eventually; but as to the second, the blade having gone between the costal pleura and the pulmona
, of whom Ashtaroth was the chief; that Grandier had entrusted his pact with the devil, under the symbol of a bunch of roses, to a certain Jean Pivart, to give 
liers waited a whole year in vain for the second quarter of his pension. At the end of this time, as his letters to Chamillard remained unanswered, and finding 
truggle was going on at the palace, the spirit of murder broke loose in the town. At the gate of the Madeleine, M. de Jalabert’s house was broken into by the re
 me to write to you, or to despatch a messenger to you. However, I do not intend to offend you: if you knew with what fears I am agitated, you would not have yo
ruin by Grandier; the name of no single victim of his alleged immorality was given. The conduct of the case was the most extraordinary ever seen; it was evident
ts, and were ordered to leave the kingdom, being sent, accompanied by an escort and at the king’s expense, to Geneva. The following is the account given by Mari
ven that which he has to his own crown. I do not know in what condition the affairs of my said sister-in-law will be when you receive this letter; but I will te
 replied the child. George Douglas, for it was he, sprang into the garden, and, taking the queen’s arm on one side and Mary Seyton’s on the other, he hurried th
aped. The militia being thus disappointed, wreaked their vengeance on some passing Protestants, whose unlucky stars had led them that way; these they knocked ab
ers my distressed servants, you will hear the truth, and that, thanks to God, I despise death, which I protest I receive innocent of every crime, even if I were
swered; "then, madam, prepare." The queen rose, and as the executioner approached to assist her disrobe— "Allow me, my friend," said she; "I know how to do it b
art." However well placed as was this eminence for overlooking from its summit the whole battlefield, the reiterated discharge of cannon and musketry covered it
 it was recognised by the wounds, and pushed back again into the waters, which bore it towards the sea. Three leagues farther on it stopped again, this time by 
order that the blood extravasated during the night might be drawn off every morning by means of a pump, as is done in the operation for empyaemia. Notwithstandi
r from such philosophers, I went up to them and questioned them, and they explained their hopes to me with the greatest innocence, and above all, their firm det
erish, would deserve to be beheaded." Upon this reply, Elizabeth ordered the Scotch envoys to withdrew, telling them that she would let them have her answer. Th
d upon everyone. There was one great cry; the enthusiasm was universal; the National Guard wanted to join him to the last man, but Marshal Massena did not give 
the name of Cadets de la Croix, from a small white cross which they wore on their coats; so the poor Huguenots had a new species of enemy to contend with, much 
 the wife of a miller named Semenil came into town ostensibly to buy provisions, but really to denounce them as being concealed, with two other Camisards, in he
he queen with the same marks of respect. It contained only these few words: "Trust George Douglas; for your Majesty has no more devoted friend in the entire kin
ones, that nothing can break, that it may make of us the most tender and faithful couple that ever was; there is the profession of faith in which I would die. "
five men who had got into the dining-room, and threatened to fire if they did not instantly get out again. Four obeyed, but one refused to budge; whereupon Moul
he Duke of Savoy, who had begged both England and Holland to help him. He bore himself so gallantly that it was in great part due to him that the French were fo
as’s bastard, confirming the prediction of the astrologer who had warned Rizzio to beware of a certain bastard, drawing the king’s own dagger, plunged it into t
 and, restraining the expression of that love of which he had once spoken to the queen, while promising her never more to speak of it, he took the hand that Mar
ened Mary more than it reassured her; for she understood that, while she stayed in the castle, this ceremony would prevent any intimacy at table. However, it pr
ained a hundred and eleven hamlets, inhabited by two hundred and seventy-five families, of which only nine were Catholic; that of Saint-Etienne de Valfrancesque
 lady who looked after it, her silk embroideries to her who took charge of them, her silver plate to her butler, and so on with the rest. Then, as they were ask
gan to think of his own safety. But it was already too late, for he was surrounded by dragoons, and the only way of retreat open to him lay over a large rock. T
ngle letter from him, and that she defied anyone in the world to maintain that she had ever done anything to the prejudice of the said Queen of England; that be
 of firmness showed Huntly that the young queen was not disposed to allow the Scottish lords a resumption of the almost sovereign power humbled by her father; s
wellhaugh, despite the violence of his character, displayed no anger: he merely responded, with a terrible smile, "It is well; I shall avenge her." Next day, Bo
y. No one could ever discover how he escaped, and consequently his reputation rose higher than ever, it being currently believed that, led by the Holy Spirit as
s that, with the help of this good sword, I should have carved for them from that traitor’s carcass." At these words, Mary Seyton and Robert Melville looked at 
n, "do you forget a certain repast given in an Edinburgh tavern, by this same Bothwell, to those same noblemen who treat him to-day as an adulterer and a murder
urned Mary, "calm and prepared as you may be, collect all your strength, not merely to hear this name uttered, but also to receive in a few minutes the man who 
at, thanks to the interest inspired by the prisoner and to the nearness to Whitsuntide, the crowd would be immense, and as some movement from the universities w
e maintained that it becomes women to cultivate letters, and that it is unjust and tyrannical to deprive flowery of their perfumes, by banishing young girls fro
ound it seemed to her that the scheme on which her liberty hung was discovered, and when, at breakfast and at dinner time, William Douglas entered as usual, she
 before the twelfth beat the propitious star was shining on the horizon: there was no longer any doubt; everything was settled. Mary could not sleep all night: 
 but, on your side, let your grace know well, that present or absent, whether I am silent or speak, whether I act or remain inert, all will be in appearance onl
 she had her prisoner removed from Bolton Castle to Carlisle Castle, from whose terrace, to crown her with grief, poor Mary Stuart saw the blue mountains of her
ocking cruelty on her, of which they desired no witnesses. Bourgoin, who was at their head, seeing that he could obtain nothing by threats or entreaties, asked 
ly insisting on being led against the ramparts and the towers, when without warning a heavy fusillade began from the windows and the clock tower of the Capuchin
to be made of them. This is the family, less George, who, as we have said, was absent at the time of her arrival, into the midst of which the queen had fallen, 
ps.’" This time the dagger pierced the heart, and the abbe had only time to ejaculate, "Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great mercy!" before he fell b
ssed that, led away by the entreaties of the nuns, she had told a lie. Upon this, the woman was sentenced to be publicly whipped, and the young girl hanged on a
etched huts, called the "Thieves’ cross-roads". In going round his new residence, Darnley noticed that three holes, each large enough for a man to get through, 
xpedition into the level country under Cavalier, so it was given out that he had left for Montpellier, and had sent forward some of his baggage-waggons to that 
the resignation of a Christian that you require, but the strength and resolution of a queen" "Oh, Douglas! Douglas," cried Mary mournfully, "a fortune-teller pr
e door behind her. All that day Mary did not come down, remaining at her window, from which she at least enjoyed a splendid view over the plains and village of 
r with six persons, having, say de Thou and Melville, Rizzio seated on her right; while, on the contrary, Carapden assures us that he was eating standing at a s
t home to us, for a few yards away we suddenly heard the shrieks of a man who was being murdered. They were the first cries of agony I had ever heard, and for a
osen: such a scandal, just when the queen was about to re-marry, was fatal to Mary, let alone to Chatelard. Murray took the affair in hand, and, thinking that a
d her also, treating her dead body, when they discovered her condition, in a manner too revolting for description; while a neighbour, called Marie Silliot, who 
 have lost, not wealth and power, but to have lost herself. So she wrote him a long letter, in which, forgetful of herself, she promised him with the most tende
 moment. Both were young, both were handsome, and they left Edinburgh amidst the cheers of the people and the army. Murray and his accomplices did not even try 
 my heart with joy almost too great to bear. "Her adventures were the following: "My wife and her mother had gone to our house, as agreed upon, to pack our trun
ss that ever was. Above all, do not allow yourself to be moved by that woman: her sham tears are nothing in comparison with the real tears that I shed, and with
of other houses, and the church and the presbytery of Saint-Amand. Thence the Camisards proceeded to Cayla and Vauvert, into which they entered, destroying the 
e indeed in good faith surprised like Lord Douglas at this difference in race, whether she knew the cause and inwardly reproached herself, George had never been
interrupted their story by asking why the gates had not been closed and the bearer of the letter arrested, but they replied to me that it had not been possible;
ed in saying that he had only returned from exile because he had not the wherewithal to live abroad. But when put to the torture he was made to endure such agon
 him that he had enough troops to fight and conquer all the Camisards whom he might encounter; consequently the hundred dragoons whom the lieutenant had brought
ared everything necessary for writing, and at a sign from the two lords he went out, leaving the queen and her companion alone with the three ambassadors. Then 
se passports: "We, the undersigned, secretary to Brother Cavalier, generalissimo of the Huguenots, permit by this order given by him to absent himself on busine
and was stronger and more resolute than ever. Till midnight the queen remained at the window, her eyes fixed on that star of good omen: at last Mary Seyton pers
ng to kill all the Catholics at once, and shall begin with you.’ ’What will you gain by my death?’ asked my mistress. ’Spare my life.’—’No; shut up!’ replied he
eat, that the moment of escape was near; but she greatly feared that Lord Douglas’s arrival might have upset everything, and that this evening’s signal could on
oom listened to the noise of the struggle, and finding matters growing serious, he gathered his household round him, and making them kneel down, he told them to
ten to see him. We enjoyed ourselves so much in his society that we got into the habit of going to his house nearly every evening. "On his arrival in the South 
 me to the fight. I have two brothers and two sisters before me, all noble and loyal. They will remain to you, mother; and besides you will have for sons all th
 power, but to have lost herself. So she wrote him a long letter, in which, forgetful of herself, she promised him with the most tender expressions of love neve
ed by assault. Some of the Catholics were killed, the others gained Froment’s house, where, encouraged by him, they tried to organise a resistance; but the assa
here two galleys were waiting to take her to Scotland, one commanded by M. de Mevillon and the other by Captain Albize. She remained six days in the town. At la
subject which she seemed to have wanted to broach for a long time, "Melville," she continued, "tell me frankly, is my sister as beautiful as they say?" "She has
e, being met at the door by twelve to fifteen men who had remained faithful to him. He asked them where Ravanel and his troops were, not seeing a single Camisar
ceasing to rain and mist, was now eaten up with rust; he had slung on his back, much as one slings a quiver, a broadsword, so heavy that it took two hands to ma
 allowed to come near it; and not only that, but the English having noticed that Mary Stuart’s unhappy servants, who were still detained as prisoners, went to l
ed: not that he thought for an instant of sparing their lives, but that he wished to reserve them for a public execution. These three men were Nouvel, a parishi
ers." "You will find him, moreover," added Mr. G——, "a very distinguished young man, who, although he was very young at that time, has retained a vivid recollec
receipt of this letter, the city herald was sent to the towers to offer the rebels terms of capitulation. The three "captains in command" came out to discuss th
 madman, unconscious of everything round me. "M______ went out to try to pick up some news, but in an instant we heard him running back, and he dashed into the 
ry Seyton rushed into the garden. The child closed the door behind them. About two-thirds of the way across, Little Douglas held out his hand as a sign to them 
d gale; Wherefore full grieved and fearful is my state, Not for your sake, but since, in evil sort, Fortune so oft snaps strongest rope and sail." Elizabeth tre
ppointed, and after having visited the little Protestant cemetery where Sand and Kotzebue are buried at twenty paces from each other, I had ordered my driver to
and means of corruption which were not within the power of d’Aygaliers, they did not despair of success. They therefore sent for a countryman called Lacombe, in
 eighteen who belonged to no-party and had never injured anyone? As for me, my opinions were well known. Moreover, my mother-in-law offered to accompany her dau
ing her forward, made her fall on her knees: Mary then understood what was required of her, and feeling for the block with her hands, which were still holding h
liver me from my wretched prisons, where I languished, a captive and ill-treated princess, for nineteen years and seven months; but it never occurred to me, eve
 in his stirrups, so that he could see over every head, Cavalier shouted so loud that not only his own men heard but also those of the enemy: "My children, if o
 great many evolutions, and then continued his way towards Nages. M. de Montrevel received a report at nine o’clock in the morning of the direction Cavalier and
ited in silence for his servant’s arrival; but the hours passed away, and the servant did not come. At one o’clock in the morning, Bothwell, after having talked
ed to herself. Melville did not allow himself to be discouraged by this experience, and pretended, to have received a letter that one of his friends, Thomas Bis
n their results; they deprived the Camisards of shelter indeed, but they ruined the province. M. de Baville, despite his well-known severity tried remonstrances
e songs and threats of their comrades. The barricade was next attacked, some using axes, others darting their swords and halberts through the crevices and killi
 as he felt that he had right upon his side he was incapable of drawing back. Grandier’s adversaries soon became conscious of the storm which was gathering abov
e of his friends, and Jean Cavalier yielded. The young girl promised him inviolable fidelity, and he, relying on this promise, went to Geneva. There he made the
tion, that when they were on the prisoner could neither stand nor sit. Even the most fervent panegyrists of Abbe Duchayla spoke of him with bated breath, and, w
of Boeton’s right leg; but the singing was at once resumed, and continued without interruption till each limb had been broken in two places. Then the executione
 Lord, hear my voice!" Then Esprit Seguier raised his arm and struck in his turn, saying, "Take that for my son, whom you broke on the wheel at Montpellier." An
p; his only weapon, offensive or defensive, was a little sword, which he seemed to wear rather as a sign of his rank than for attack or defence. As to his featu
ut Moses and Daniel Guy threw themselves between, so that the blow aimed at Catinat fell on Moses. At the same moment Catinat, seeing Cavalier’s gesture, drew a
way to assist her in the affliction in which she now is, reflecting that the prison where she has been unjustly detained for eighteen years and more has induced
sked; "and has she not already kept us waiting long enough outside, without making us wait again inside? Or does she imagine that, despite these walls and these
d to move her to Fotheringay Castle. The gaoler, then, hypocritically relaxing his usual severity, suggested to Mary Stuart that she should go riding, under the
ers to hold back. "God desireth not the death of a sinner,’" said he, "’but rather that he turn from his wickedness and live.’" "No, no!" shouted a score of voi
to gain upon him. Then Bothwellhaugh; seeing that whip and spur were not enough, drew his dagger and used it to goad on his horse. His horse, under this terribl
uiet streets, we reached his house unmolested; but in fact the whole city was quiet, for the carnage was practically at an end. "My wife safe! this thought fill
 then, putting down the casket and the keys on the ground, he placed his hands together, and blowing into them, thrice imitated the owl’s cry so well that it wa
, you will no longer owe it to anyone"; but, as they pointed out that the king her son could claim from them, "You are right," said she; and she gave them what 
 in the absence of Marshal Brune, tried to harangue the people, but his voice was drowned by the shouts of the mob who had gathered round a coffee-house where s
I slept for about an hour, and only went to bed afterwards. "Thus passed this shameful day, in which I have not thought enough of my kind and worthy parents, wh
natures the names of Lindsay of Byres and William Ruthven. O noble Lord Herries," cried Mary, "loyal James Melville, you alone were right then, when you threw y
Lochleven, now saw her advance with uneasiness: the mere idea of again facing this woman, whose pride one was always obliged to oppose with insolence, was, afte
," Elizabeth replied impatiently, "do you not know that Mary Stuart has given birth to a son, while I am but a barren stock, who will die without offspring?" Ye
ving been hotly pursued by the English fleet, entered Brest harbour, 15th August, 1548, one year after the death of Francis! Besides the queen’s four Marys, the
s assistance he exclaimed, "It seems that we shall get rid of one of these dogs of Burschen; thank God!" Notwithstanding this manifestation of hatred, which, in
 did not attain the dimensions they expected nor gain such enthusiastic adherents, it would be quite feasible for them to defend themselves in such a position u
d his companions, who were walking in the cloisters, and told them that the almsgiving was about to begin, inviting them to take part in this ceremony; but they
take the house. [At Mannheim houses are marked by letters, not by numbers.] Sand went at once to Kotzebue’s house: it was about ten o’clock; he was told that th
e good citizen sets himself or some other stake upon the game, and when every true son of the country, prepared for the struggle for justice, despises the good 
shal. Him he found striding up and down his room, his handsome and noble face as calm as if the voices of all those shouting men outside were not demanding his 
fore going into battle. But as the verbal authorisation which he had given was not sufficient, a pen and paper were given to Sand, and he wrote, with a steady h
th was to be inflicted, a wooden platform five or six feet high, on which was fastened flat a St. Andrew’s cross, formed of two beams of wood in the form of an 
 act of sacrilege—that is to say, he had, as priest, in the middle of the night, performed the service of marriage between himself and his mistress. The more ab
 joined them, and who stood with his hand on Cavalier’s shoulder, a few steps farther. Catinat seeing that the conference was at an end, entered the garden with
is life of so little worth that the duke and de Baville did not long hesitate, but pledged their word to spare his life if the revelations he was about to make 
k room and looking out on the courtyard, seemed to offer more chances of safety than the other. The marshal asked for writing materials, which Moulin brought, w
