astonished at this luxury nor rejoiced a
ervants, who was carrying a la■tern. He 
o, her knees, praying aloud in Latin, wh
t, and spreading his hands over him, he 
 well enough that I was too great an obs
 the one party was too weak in numbers t
f ten thousand pounds sterling, for havi
ittle Protestant cem■tery where Sand and
that I had changed my views once more, a
ved me, and that I have thought for your
d just as they were about to emigrate. A
h were placed the corpses of the four ■e
two dragoons, one Swiss, and one horse, 
Baville grew pale with anger; for whethe
 Cavalier, without telling his comrades 
, felt that it would be a great disgrace
 such accurate information. There is not
mmission. I finish, therefore, by assuri
onial. Consequently, as Rizzio was disli
ess and free, and I do not ow■ to any pr
ste, had him instructed in the first pri
s all anger and bitterness against the m
, forget all I have told you, except the
 lose: the young master of Douglas canno
hing him for having, no doubt through fe
 move to the door, and on account of the
ion of every other tribunal, would be ■m
caught the following words: "It is quite
ary answer■d; "I had intended to, but I 
ormerly, His Majesty’s loyal and obedien
 the defeat of Ravanel, he surrendered t
object; he therefore followed his advice
mplice M. de Trappes; and immediately de
 was a day of joy for Sand; for he found
 what, and th■t he even suspects that hi
outed vigorously, ’Long live the king!’ 
on, set off to seek safety in the countr
deck, she who was so grieved to set out,
h and poetic traditions of your Germany.
thy will, To see tormented still Wretche
arcely had she been seen at■the window t
e now repea■ed: other witnesses had decl
 to take it, and, as he was the senior, 
de the gens d’armes entered the church a
ient■as he was for Ruthven to come— "You
n,■for it could not be found. They surro
beth inquired. "Oh yes, madam," ans■ered
the husband of La■y Lochleven, and the f
ny new step in his absence, and let the 
at this was no mere street row, bu■ a de
nt by God"; its purpose was to prove by 
scaped from his hand, his knees gave way
 which, thanks to the merits of Chris■, 
they ■t last arrived in London, Sunday t
s mission in much the same words as thos
ve lived the free life of thought; th■nk
e away Passion's ■low, Wakens no display
tak■ him wherever he may desire. Detachm
tform tw■lve feet wide, raised about two
e rebels in line: Captain Poul on the ri
s wound bleeding profusely. On the other
f Dorothea Jane Wilheltmina Schapf, his 
 house; for Chamillard had gi■en him tha
th a tomb upon which is engraved this in
 the passage; "make way ■or the young ma
motive for conce■lment, showed himself t
le. "Mignonne," said she, looking one af
concerns me to keep your heart, which be
 them to lead them, by the way which off
 have promised you. As for you, be sure 
e to fetch her■to wait a moment, and in 
of his consc■ence. In it we find his who
ich makes me think they are all in his i
I shed, ■nd with what love and constancy
 rank and authority, to which the an■wer
om France, and whom she liked very mu■h.
fe and honour in the plot of which he wa
Douglas, Douglas, Tender and true." Mary
r granted but under the surveillance of 
is back, much as one slings a quiver, a 
r. "The undersigned has the honour to po
 Queen Elizabeth with the life of her pr
retched out his neck to the executioner,
ture deliberation, ratified as bein■ jus
ne with the leg broken". ■If the furnitu
romise of security at least a promise of
he governor himself. He had a court like
had forgotten." He was silent, therefore
ctly, monseigneur," stepping back as if 
I returned home quite giddy, and threw m
u; but when you would like to know if th
 horse and went off at full gallop, foll
— "MY VERY DEAR PARENTS:—The grand-duke’
ime, if not by Mary, at least by Bothwel
actions of his li■e, but also in all the
order to show the king and France, at th
ched him. Cavalier rejoined his troops, 
l and continual demands, prayers, counse
mouths of the servants? For t■e queen ho
rous meetings were taking place at ■eauc
h beset his path. Although the other pas
release of all prisoners who have been c
 his long pipe,■that inseparable compani
eve that all those people have been cast
t the boarders took advantage of the occ
ges: "If the door to high positions and 
aused delay: that of Saint-Germain de Ca
ed his arm and struck in his turn, sayin
t ■rab breed which was introduced into L
n important matter as this of her life. 
disposed, and set out incognito for Scot
to make room for the Ca■isards. On the 1
, mater■al details and poetic ideas, whi
 many bands of insurgents as might be em
o, then," said the queen, "and ask Sir A
he liberty of asking for aid from you, k
 1626, only six years before the time wh
, Sand proposed himself as the messenger
d for the Queen of England’s bounty, but
ord withdrew, and, ■ppearing to think hi
 hundred miquelets who had penetrated t■
 among those plai■s and mountains! Decid
her old talent. In reality the queen was
h having carried a pitchfork the day bef
 journeys, they were at last, December 1
 Soissonais■regiment, by name Laplace, t
nd which can only result in the ruin of 
 informed th■ bailiff and the civil lieu
, I address myself to you, my dear paren
 "’The assassins!’ "My first feeling, I 
fficials, seeing there was nothing more 
e’s knowing tow■rds what spot in the wor
t, "so I shall have the happiness of dyi
s face to windward, so that his agony mi
Widemann, pale and trembling, presented 
the wall, whose shadow hid■s us. The boa
h means at once in a single syllable, "B
p the weapon, the shot missed its aim an
n the case of Sodom and Gomorrah—those c
ier’s death, his friends advised him to 
breath, instead of making for some cover
e interviews which d’Aygaliers had had w
ow beneath the yoke of a perverse minori
ole, came to me■t them. He told them tha
 Camisards stopped, rallied, lined the b
e was about to make proved to be of real
ubt; everything was ready except the pri
, and riding them■bare-backed had dashed
d, fast as it leaped, before the twelfth
permission to expiate their crime by adv
o the room, calling out: "’They are comi
r pretext of not exposing them to the an
, performed the service of marriage betw
 one knee, drew from his breast a paper 
your hours are numbered." T■ereupon Cati
eaucaire and Nimes were posted at freque
hem as brothers. "We remain, with all th
■. But here arose a fresh difficulty, th
ted by M. de Julien had taken refuge in 
sh to compare you to a lover a■ unfortun
separated themselves from the throng, an
the bridge of Avene at noon, accompanied
lier received a letter from the minister
infested the approaches. I soon perceive
 to second his efforts in this direction
istance that their assailants were twice
shed to bring her, as author, or at leas
n, the soldiers collected for that fatal
Mazel-Rozade, who had assumed the name o
 M. de St. Pons, knowing that the window
stry was raised, and Lord Ruthven, in ar
nd used as a battering-ram to force in t
isons. The first three were condemned to
ll at Glasgow. He ■mmediately sent for a
l’s feet end begged for his life: after 
es. This species of selection apparently
 was immediately adopted as the Catholic
d not forbid it. Indeed, the■manifesto o
to the queen, who sprang lightly ashore,
he had to leave Lochleven next morning, 
nd forty-seven Protestants, so that it l
 explanation of such a difference in edu
then ■old the duke he had something of i
ives, and dies in a longer or shorter ti
w things stood. In fact■ he went back to
ite resolved as he was to obtain from Ma
d the events that began thus that Sand, 
eanne ■ennedy and Elspeth Curle, the one
t Dittmar reappeared, and by an unheard-
one, sometime■ its support, sometimes it
y pleasure left a remorse in his heart. 
 still more bloody than those of the day
 those who were neither maddened by fana
as; "but we also kne■ that your signatur
tead of serving to unite the two groups 
 m■re than they would have dared to ask 
ting place. The loss of Dittmar, however
t the town hall, and which should have b
ce, but it was■plainly visible that this
m. At the end of the mass■a Te Deum was 
holics. It was a very numerous assembly,
 tumult, repaired at once to the barrack
ecting that the prison where she has bee
ying without posterity. Unfortunately, s
rough the village they must first give u
O Lord and Father! protect me, save me, 
 I am writing, it is of myself that I co
these outrages stoically enough but a mo
ley, who wished to succeed at all costs,
nces and potentates, my allies, nor to m
 Beale, and many gentlemen of the neighb
told him that his head was turned,■that 
orrow. Mr. Widemann made him sit in a ch
of the king’s council, and for Chamillar
lves, on learning that he had once been 
Burschen; thank God!" Notwithstanding th
sing at the moment, but he took no notic
ther, William Douglas: he arrived the sa
ence. I die willingly, and the Lord will
at the Scotch ambassadors had wanted to 
 that the abbe remonstrated with them, t
the theatre of war to prevent the rebels
er attempted, consented to, or even desi
e powerful to command the desires of the
d between Kaiserthal and Mannheim, at ab
ide: he had received an order from the p
d by walking right into the trap set for
 the witch of Endor■had made the shade o
ake you to Lochleven Castle, your future
 of passion reached such a point, that o
m■anions, passed through the defile pell
of liberty." With this farewell to his p
y recurring, wou■d greatly trouble the p
voice rose unfalteringly, as he admonish
enty. The entire weight of the ministry 
n had no effect upon the mob, heard the 
 of ■homas Warden should happen to be at
t an example was Castanet. On September 
sap■eared, climbed into the yards and sh
esty for himself and his adherents. M. d
ment from his hands, and broke it to pie
stination that same evening. Indeed, as 
ng with his pistol, "you seem to be in c
nt in search of her, and made her remons
s shown himself very friendly to us. ’We
and told him if he had any last arrangem
s, I was to pass gently through this lif
elt a sharp pain as if she had been pric
 in so doing to■serve the intentions of 
 his society that we got into the■habit 
ed them away quickly to the lake-side. W
rdened with a numerous family, who, reco
 deeds, Cavalier took the chateau■of Ser
ring to end all these investigations, ac
be long now, for here he is." Indeed, at
ring villages, that it was decided to pu
y heart, full of gratitude for your past
, and the manner in which you tell me th
f season. All this, says La Baume, was s
ing their intentions, some among them ha
ut as that position was oppressive to hi
 he remained under water between two roc
lung some paces away, it was believed th
 To th■s answer, the queen, without her 
 in which he ■ngaged to deliver up his a
 had she heard the news than she gave or
ent about on the most brotherly terms, e
ith him until the 13th, that is to say, 
self up in■her apartments, finding a cer
him. And in fact th■ first two days were
or one of those ghastly rumours which ci
life; and I obtained from them, thanks t
ll: there was no mistake possible, not a
e loss of his two■sons, and of remorse f
rs to arrange the terms of a convention 
carried there; but the most probable ver
 thus far, and who would have taken him 
ng-room, and the third as ante-chamber; 
tance from the place where I myself was,
m.]_ This part of herself that Mary left
ade forthwith. They therefore advanced o
rms, and ammunition to the Huguenots. Th
young man from Sainte-Chatte, highly tho
the knife from the wound, he gave himsel
ring them that we were Royalists. Our co
pt to find out the cause of the enmity o
 more miquelets were slightly wounded. T
ylum, so, throwing himself down in a dit
ch a large number of villa■ns—all murder
rned, all danger was over, we set out fo
 relative to Urbain was a man called Dut
aken to revive the fires when they began
in your error, for want of having heard 
haud with such ■apidity that he gained o
until the 5th of September, 1792, had on
ep up their courage and are ready to fal
 of the true religion, and the rightful 
 by a back way to give notice to the aut
, and so long that while ■he hilt reache
a challenge from Lapor■e to Poul, and wa
ng, and rounded at one end so as to form
e left me in my mountains, and come ther
ough the head with a pistol. They offere
 up Rizzio’s head by the hair, whilst th
and it occurred to them that she was sup
dun believed them true, although no one 
 queen?" said in a low voice a man wh■ w
ined his troops at Tarnac, and related a
I, and of England and Ireland as James I
ueen was not a little astonished, then, 
 officers is call■d to the following:—Wh
terest inspired by the prison■r and to t
everything as it happened; but the day o
uld prevent her going resolutely to the 
se, and among them more par■icularly the
tly the visitor came in, Sand flung hims
e de P■yre, who brought fifty-five compa
less destroyed the best part of his hope
 break in the door." "Do nothing to it, 
g my most eager wishes by making my exec
hem for rebels; that they were marching 
 blotted out, to give place to a hue■dul
s not seen on you; for I have worked at 
showed him more and more clearly how gre
still more respect than love, "h■ppy Dou
e between two names, and this excuse, as
 his a■tention directed to Catinat by a 
oint: it is not your mercy that I come t
 weapons as he approached, without firin
ebauchery was the least. Accordingly, se
ded with pearls, he■ collar in the Itali
o fear from such philosophers, I went up
er was fine, and everything seemed to sm
ot know, M. de Vogue and the other offic
rival at Kirk of Field, the king saw ■ l
imprudent as usual, confided this plan t
f. The month of March arrived. Sand beca
o be drawn up under arms in t■e rear of 
nence surrounded upon all sides by cliff
haps, but no doubt our readers will pa■d
were greeted with insulting remarks, and
 if it was not a vision that had appeare
utal master, who, no longer having any m
re the same to the commandant, the Sieur
lfield, whose conventual name was Jeanne
ess felt in being unable to admit her to
Well, who was right, now, you or I?" The
ot long married to a gentleman named M. 
mountains of her own Scotland. However, 
itchforks, and bayonets attached to stic
idly approaching me, I kept close in the
ow, ma■am," replied the young man, "I mu
e had no o■her consolation than seeing i
ich he was already attacke■ the day of t
 soon came out again, and approaching th
 who will tell you that, since my arriva
lousy, which she could not even disguise
. de La Jonquiere, showing him his order
erred by their first volley. As he had e
lendid view over the plains and village 
ontinue his education; he wrote to his m
eeing Mary Seyton standing ■ehind her— "
der pretext of visiting her possessions 
pening to have no leader, Cavalier with 
of ten, the hour fixed for their departu
se in the hall drew back a step, and Ver
esolution; but Ravanel and Mose■ seeing 
 these events were p■ssing in Scotland, 
ed there than the chief persons of the t
is way through Lyons, the provost of mer
d his crime and whether he felt any repe
ent through the ordeal as if it were a r
was then obliged to make the best of the
in the lists, Spens of Kilspindie, who h
ken, and it was indeed Rizzio who, in de
 who broke the windows by throwing stone
his crimes are known, but that every day
," the doors of ■hich were opened to him
t otherwise■responding to the questions 
s soon as we liked. We saw Commandant Ma
ment, and as soon as it was complete it 
relations in which we have been brought 
; but if you find in my answers ■ single
other respects so compl■tely woman-like,
she had. Melvi■le then replied, smiling,
ors, and the chief citizens. At this mee
 beforehand, madam; but your Grace has e
he could. Her toilet ended, the queen we
. (The date was left blank.) There was a
ertain that■M. de Chateauneuf would cons
laid him under suspicion of possessing d
their efforts to restore to the king the
 other■province into Languedoc for comme
bury, remembering th■ resistance she had
he lust of destruction. There they massa
officers. The Protestants pr■pared thems
ith a full report of all that had passed
h Grandier? It must be admitted that t■i
wever, the doors w■re broken in, the fur
nly iron tools and the human hand, inste
eath as the night fell." In obedience to
 why, scarcely healed, should we ■all ba
tures, to which his extreme youth, his l
st one of M. de Baville’s subordinates, 
eloved brother, to bear it without■remor
 her letter to Bothwell, had refused to 
black thorns. He added that during the t
evere torture to which they had been sub
to Nimes to restore tranquillity and put
 was beginning to be looked upon, no lon
nly mention it in order to give an idea 
hat I had found the said Grandier lying 
, and the two separated, e■ch delighted 
s■e returned into her bedroom, and bolte
 of May 1820 the high court of justice d
ns, and spread ab■oad by three of their 
the contrary, I have always l■ved her, a
n, to the great alarm of his wife, who w
. Then she went to bed and slept more ca
s festival, established to celebrate the
r numbers, ye soldiers of St. Etienne, B
 for me not to refuse to believe what yo
 by go■ng into his bedroom, and that som
n another’s life, and was devoted, body 
eatures, his eyes sparkling and beautifu
litiamen all wearing the red tuft, the c
ng him as well as M. de Chateauneuf: he 
ckly to Marseilles than to Nimes, so the
e age of sixteen. Mary had been present 
e north, she placed herself at the head 
 back at Wonsiedel, to the great joy of 
im, and he joined me. He told me that, b
nished his time and then became a scaven
 in case of civil war, all good citizens
a dragoon dismount and give him his hors
witnesses. Bourgoin, who was at their he
en in use with Mary Stuart, Queen of Eng
own. I was spitting such a quantity of b
can nourish the soul; in a word, I tried
e and La Gardonninque to ask you for rei
the place Necker, and sing songs suggest
olics were awaiting with impatience the 
llier; and as it was on the latter that 
, followed by a second carriage in which
uble pride of queen and woman: thus she 
On the first favourable opportunity that
. Convinced by this that his enemies had
 he became an inventor, and n■t only did
lvinists with terror, gave them rather f
to hear a word in justification of the d
te well aware■of this offer of Lalande’s
raordinary. Resolute and full of courage
on.] "Considering the sentence by us giv
d them had ill understood, or whether he
ncouraged to hold out, as was proved by 
ave, saying she might be allowed six. So
 of Nimes, was at the same time directed
hwell at Dunbar, marched upon Edinburgh,
rs, and which they would pass on to thei
queen asked who was there, and Little Do
nd ask him how he had done, and to do as
o have a new scaffold made at his own ex
and professors as captains; the poet, Ko
g it back on the legs■in such a manner t
 journeys to the forest without reserve.
n■ited him to enter her service, an offe
most suitable thing for me to serve with
 to his honour,■or to his rights. And th
erewithal ■o found a mass and to perform
he noise, and it was only after a moment
ecause he would taste all the dishes ser
anation of such a difference in educatio
m. He asked them where Ravanel and his t
speak to me in such a manner, you might 
 to peace, and responsible for all the b
uccour of their friends to issue from a 
 queen to take to withdraw into France, 
er keep them, as we should probably find
e officers who remained about him made h
 of idle curiosity, drew back, but not s
ld be easy to save both. "My pl■n had fo
e able to lay it at her feet." "Is it th
the ground floor; but although Darnley w
l as the reward he met with when he reac
 may easily be supposed, the "Cadets of 
hey carried out under the eyes of Amyas 
most horrible tortures. Such as th■y wer
h the■same result. Seeing the efforts th
e, which was burned as well as a part of
rpses, and two people had been murdered 
ity, withdrew into his earldom, and let 
ly had taken refuge. In an instant the d
 notice that a vessel of the queen’s was
 army, to him, to enter into negotiation
amothe-Barace of Anjou, a■d Madame d’Esc
ding the chiefs of a conspiracy in a pla
 measures to put things straight. "You a
 the■head of the finest army that ever a
 keep their weapons were not likely to g
man, a form■r wool-carder, born at Magis
