ow him any favour, and he had got firmly fixed in his head that the reason for h
r equal: his retinue was cut■down, his silver plate taken from him, and some off
ived, and the news of the successes obtained at Fleurus and at Ligny seemed to j
 her, and, forgetting that she was the daughter of a queen who had died on the■s
et us therefore abide by the sacrifice, according to God’s will, and let us yiel
cover as quickly as possible. If, however, Thou hast willed otherwise, and if th
so it o■curred to us to offer him our little country house as a refuge where he 
: "THE HUMBLE PETITION OF THE REFORMERS OF LANGUEDOC TO THE KING "1. That it may
ere not raging in his heart, "Who called Jean Cavalier traito■ and coward?" "I,"
ot several times, and when he had finished, unable to control herself, cried, "G
patched. As soon as Captain Poul found himself at the head of a sufficient numbe
now rang, and all the castle lights were seen moving and glancing about, as if d
tly abandoned her to the rule of force. But seeing that they proceeded none the 
 to bring within my re■ch. "I answered that I would esteem myself happy if at th
 faith in wh■ch I would die. "Excuse my scrawl: you must guess more than the hal
 advice was the last I could make up my mind to follow, so we went on, but found
se of my opinions, had indeed found safety at my brother-in-law’s. "Night was co
and very touchy, and when he got home he refused his food. I thought at first th
he dragoons by their help, so he resolved to fly on foot, ■hus avoiding the open
r bands meeting the Abbe de Saint Gilles on the road, ordered him to deliver up 
n once again the Protestant places of worship, which had been so long closed, in
. This hatred was on account of their having seized the guardianship of the youn
 moment the traces were cut, whereupon the marshal, opening the door, alighted, 
sses. In the face of this two-fold danger, General Malmont had ordered the regul
ntic plans of political regeneration. Thus, on the flyleaf of his journal for th
d gained a fatal influence upon the minds■of rulers. Nearly all the persons who 
ve of their country which have been displayed by M. Pierre Froment, receiver of 
 glanced through the letter, but had scarcely read the half of it when he took M
t an entrance to the Jacobin monastery, and from there to the tower adjoining, s
plice. But the queen, instead of thanking■Herries for this devotion, seemed very
 would have fallen, if someone had not caught hold of her. In the evening she en
 was ended, he turned—towards the queen’s windows, and, having cried out for the
embled at the fountain to be reviewed by a general and a sub-inspector, and as t
e gran■ of this great desire of his, the crown matrimonial. Consequently, as Riz
s the prisoners, that Elizabeth, having received a report stating that the ill-e
llow of fifteen, named Payre, in passing near the guard placed at the Pont des f
n in their resolution; but Ravanel and Moses seeing the effect he had produced, 
 impute it as a crime to her hosts: she resigned herself, then, to this company,
ew, was to sleep on the 15th at Caveyrac. On this day Cavalier reached the turni
he was at last murdered. "It may easily be imagined that although no one came to
y, Athol, and Bothwell, who, we are soon about to see, play such an important pa
ery singular letter," said she. "Read it. It is quite in Melville’s manner." Liv
 influence upon what was decided that in any particular case their fellow-adepts
nts and the soldiers obeyed; then William Douglas went out last, supporting Lady
ss to God than my own son, unfortunate and ill-treated as he is. You will receiv
orehead, eyebrows■which could be only blamed for being so regularly arched that 
ng Lady Lochleven, and the queen heard him shut behind him and double-lock the t
e they are!’ "’Who are coming?’ we asked. "’The■assassins!’ "My first feeling, I
oment: this rest gave Bothwellhaugh time to adjust himself for a s■eady shot. He
on the way from Montarem, pillaging houses, murdering magistrates, outraging wom
 words, began to shout, "Catinat is taken! Catinat is taken!" This cry drew a la
eryone was in good humour, and the happiest of all was perhaps Little William, w
nded. Thanks to this concession to political opinions on the highway, and in no 
se with you, and I am obliged to make an end. "I cannot prevent myself, however,
out to undertake; if I were to live a■other fifty years, I could not live more h
is comparison, sent him back a messenger post-haste authorising him to employ th
ds of money, some more, some less; the smallest amount given being 200 livres. T
rd, and the marshal fell dead on the spot, the bullet which entered at the shoul
lf-year, in order to obviate any suspicion, and went by way of Erfurt and Eisena
 her by the assurance that no ghosts existing, it could not be ghosts who ran ri
st the white flag at Toulon, while with a cockade in his hat he had formally res
reaten■ Germany? And you yourselves, in your infinite love, should you not rathe
s imposing and dignified air, checked the zeal of the Reformers. As we■have said
orced to remain lying on my back, unable t■ raise myself, and although more than
 flank of the Catholics. In this charge, one of M. de Vergetot’s captains was ki
hem in his favour, and make himself pitied. His father threw up blood to-day thr
officers repaired in a body to the headquarters of General Briche, commandant of
the■ hardly outnumbered the Camisards, these did not stop to look for another ro
gure slight and a little bent by habit rather than by years, since he was but fo
e was bloody, disfigured, dying, but was yet alive, uttering dismal groans. I tr
l not be harmed, but simply driven away with threats; for the king does not desi
ed to the last sword, unfurled to the last b■nner; but my father, ready as he is
are found in the, aforesaid province of Languedoc without such certificates be r
 the stake, being burnt through at the bas■, broke, and Catinat falling into the
 their prisoner to stop an instant, while he, raising his fettered hands to heav
e d’A■tois gave me letters of recommendation to the chief nobles in Upper Langue
and chose their principals and professors as captains; the poe■, Korner, killed 
en before breakfast. When the door opened, ’she turned quickly round: it was, as
 in it. He soon entered one of these associations, the Teutonia; and from that m
 at Richembourg, whither Sand followed him; it was there that the events of 1813
d be praised for all, and give you grace to persevere in the service of His Chur
way. "Thinking it was placed there in our honour, I was advancing unsuspiciously
ew less, and at the present day, when some of those who wiped the blood from the
ere is father? Why doesn’t he come and take me away." Four men and a young girl 
: "I have been tormented all this day on account of my religi■n, and urged to re
ham: he thought he heard footsteps in the apartme■t beneath him. Durham rose, to
gned) LEFEVRE Adjutant and Chief of Staff of the First Corps of the Imperial Arm
alediction. In all, the body of the abbe received fifty-two dagger thrusts, of w
at after the victory to which his head and arm had contributed so much he was co
ll never rise again from here. I entreat you, tell me your decision: God alone k
we have not yet spoken, because, being away from the castle when the queen arriv
lf believe in the justice of his cause, he, to escape the combat, sought such st
amount of strategical sa■acity they had never till then displayed. This skill in
and Vabre were ordered to send deputies to Durfort to confer as to the best mean
they are to withdraw to some other place within three days. "COMTE ROLAND." Unfo
uestion should be asked to call at the prison as soon as he arrived from Heidelb
lace. The clerics offered no opposition, but said they feared that the devils we
 against whom he fought; for him as for them the marshal was a mortal enemy, but
 to another slight rise near the first; "but it is important for us to lose no d
 vain; all she would reply was, "To the other! To the other!" Mignon explained t
to see me, the answer to my demands h■ving arrived. I obeyed at once, and was ve
lack armour, ■ithout other arms, had continued at the queen’s side. "Avoid an en
 his entry into the city, and having re■d the reports of the general to the King
xecutioner, "if this last wish of your Majesty cannot be fulfilled;■but, not hav
missions wrung from Castanet in March, nearly a month passed without any sign of
irearm was heard, and a ball passed, whistling. The queen uttered a little cry, 
-me-nots scattered upon the ea■th. It will readily be understood that this sight
g hostages he should have claimed them. At this moment Cavalier appeared at the 
Great Seal in yellow wax, and read as follows: "Elizabeth, by the grace of God, 
ugh Lyons, the provost of merchants, hearing of his return, had him arrested, an
ll they thought about. Now, therefore; the Scotch, amid their acclamations, whet
would die rather than give up what I have promised you. As for you, be sure to a
rds, in Heaven’s name, one moment!" cried the old physician, coming forward and 
o her son’s kingdom; and then, not wishing to hear more, she withdrew into her r
ing more to be said, for I could not accept passports for any smaller number, an
the disturbances in Nimes were over, when they burst out with redoubled fury on 
lly, Gilles Mowbray, Jeanne Kennedy■ Elspeth Curle, Mary Paget, and Susan Kercad
milingly replied Mary Seyton, "you are not mistaken: my father has had everythin
 for it was the confirmation of her hopes, and her companion could not tear her 
his enigma, she immediately opened it, and read as follows: "It is only by dint 
od motionless and pale as death, then instinctively he laid his hand on his swor
the town as long as he was in it, the general sent him to the citadel of Montpel
is wound to bend his head, his ■ands were laid flat on his thighs and fixed in t
a messenger was sent to Murray to inform him of the expedition in preparation, a
th. At daybreak, reflecting that she had only two hours to live, she rose and be
unmarked. His ultimate intentions were unknown to us, indeed his movements seeme
among whom were Brantome and Chatelard, she embar■ed in M. Mevillon’s galley, wh
ir adherents in their churches and houses, they are to withdraw to some other pl
left alone to-day, and who will never be content till he sees you again.’ I aske
hen I saw a man of some five-and-forty to fifty years old, who was walking a lit
yself to awakening and sustaining the zeal of the inhabitants, who ■t my suggest
r quest, and was seen sitting, her head covered by a black rag: Pointu was dead,
, without having communicated his intentions to anyone, not even to his mother. 
 to accustom themselves to these new costumes as to give them an appearance of h
of the Marches in the north, was coming to visit his ancient manor, in which he 
usand times, he handed me the offered letter. It bore this superscription: "To H
, in resounding on each step of the staircase. Scarcely were they alone than Mel
me and prepare me for death, or, in his stead, another priest, be he who he may;
 right, that at the bottom of their hearts they wanted to do this? and did I not
 Ners, intending to cross the Gardon below that town: just as M. de Villars had 
d point to their being those of a man of average stature.]—and a powerful hand, 
aiting for their arrival he had sent on emissaries in advance to rouse the peopl
lve thousand men was rather a large number for one town to furnish, but was told
r gave an insolent answer, the lieutenant advised him to go away quietly, threat
ry young at that time, has retained a vivid recollection of that event. As for h
vised him to go at once to Lyons and wait there for him, M. de Villars; for he w
 the ports of the realm, so that the news of the death shoul■ not reach abroad, 
ur royal furniture, and take care that it is not the one with the leg broken". "
me from the weaker party. On the 27th March six men met in a barn; dined togethe
eached his house, and brought us news of all that went on during that dreadful d
uch too brief a time. Villas lived three hours longer on his wheel, and expired 
n, as though he had been struck by apople■y. Can you imagine the state in which 
 him for dead, with seven wounds in his body. This was, however, the on■y murder
e. ■oth consented to do as they were asked, and M. d’Aygaliers arrived at Durfor
 la Rochepezai, by divine mercy Bishop of Poitiers, in view of the charges and i
 given birth to a son". At these words she grew frightfully pale, and, looking a
I will live even more abstemiously than I usually do, so as to repair the fatal 
 me.’ "He then urged me strongly to stay with him and lodge in his house; but I 
onless, and with her neck stiffened to make it easier for the executioner, who, 
n a loud voice for the king, for M. de Villars, for M. de Lalande, and even for 
as she had been obliged by the fog, was to land at Aberdeen. There, it was said,
ospital. He asked him whether he recognised him, and Sand’s head was so clear ■h
this confession if, while explaining my conduct to you, this confession would no
nt−Etienne de Valfrancesque, 9 " " parishes of Prunet and Montvaillant, 16 " " p
 penalty. His plan was by spreading false rumours and making feigned marches to 
 looked upon all the promises given as snares, and he regarded the compromise fa
nless complete liberty of consci■nce were granted to all. The young Cevenol, who
ed that this wa■ of looking at the case was not wanting in shrewdness. On the fo
am I not almost a Churchman myself?" And when one of them asked whether he was n
 when you learn my wishes through my poor and faithful servants, who are about t
our holy Father, not only consolation and strength, but an unalterable Friend, f
 they placed themselves under some sheds, as much to keep themselves from the co
s born in a gilded cradle and brought up in silk and velvet, was forced to humbl
r from George Douglas, conceived in these terms: "You have comm■nded me to live,
t as well follow the example set them by their brothers from Beaucaire. In twent
inly; with us, executioners have that title." "But, then, doctors of what?" "Of 
g on ■he highroad, asked for Boeton’s blessing. Unfeeling though the soldiers we
er Desmonts, and M. de ■eine, the first the mayor, the second the president of t
bsent, whether I am silent or spe■k, whether I act or remain inert, all will be 
muskets until after the meeting of the Electoral Assembly. This day the Protesta
id not fancy h■s fodder, and gave him some pieces of sugar and sticks of cinnamo
hension as to the cause of the murder, urgently demanded that justice should tak
e in prison, and to gain permission for those who were free to worship God in th
on a thousand people had answered him with one voice, asking who he was that he 
hers from Beaucaire. In twenty-four hours free companies were formed, headed by 
ueen’s Marys". They were Mary Livingston, Mary Fleming, Mary Seyton, and Mary Be
en into consideration; for indeed I am your queen’s cousin, granddaughter of Hen
 ■nd immediately left Sommieres, followed by six companies of Fimarqon dragoons,
ced hat of black felt. He was mounted on a magnificent bay horse, the same which
, and named him her favourite page fo■ the future; then, profiting by the advice
hed loudly, pretending to be very much amused at the baron’s confident way of sp
e Urbain would have shone by his many gifts, but, cooped up as he was within the
 you unworthy of a good ■an, either as an individual or as a public personage." 
ates of the town closed, and no one allowed to leave with■ut written permission 
 army of the Duc d’Angouleme after the capitulation," says Jean Saunier, "I went
ailed to effect. Several of the ringleaders were arrested and taken to prison. T
that Lord Douglas’s arrival might have upset everything, and that this evening’s
itive to a gentle voice and a tearful eye; you know the story of Achilles’ lance
e contents of the coffins, and threatened to kill her should she dare to touch t
fety, and that their goods and privileges be restored to them. ’Granted on condi
efugees; so that he actually received in England the grade of colonel, which he 
of the town, told them of his plan, showing them its practicability, so that als
s cause, and pass over into the camp of the Confederates, on condition that they
?" "In my opinion," said the baron, "the king should allow to all his subjects t
 possessions and withdraw from the country without being molested. Should His Ma
k from a visit to the wounded in the cave, whose existence was a secret, he came
oolness," replied the queen, "be easy; neither the one nor the other will fail m
 Loudon and its neighbourhood. Urbain’s life was so well ordered that it present
had been principally attracted by the reputation of Eschenmayer; he spent that w
he roof of the house, and, gliding down the other side, had dropped into the bal
sed him so much joy that he thought he should die of it. He reproached me severa
et, "and let us have done with it." The Camisards made a motion as if to follow 
tions and cruelties, shot him twice through the head with a pistol. They offered
it continued to recede, "Treason! treason!" cried the sentinel. "To arms!" At th
ing the door, gun in hand. "As soon as it was light we consulted what course we 
hat did you promise?" "True," he answered; "I had forgotten." He was silent, the
im in a respectful but formal and precise manner. Reaching the level on which Ca
he s■x made a halt, and in the most insulting tones raised the cry of "Long live
om Fotheringay village came to open and embalm them—an operation which they carr
asible for them to defend themselves in such a position until rel■ef came. These
s my foot touched the ground a double report rang out, and my dog gave a plainti
ned to rally to her, ■o that in a month’s time she found herself at the head of 
reached Peterborough, where there is a splendid cathedral built by an ancient Sa
 of this great desire of his, the crown matrimonial. Consequently, as■Rizzio was
order to crush him. In consequence, a conference was held at Barot’s, at which, 
s, the light reappeared: the queen leaned upo■ Mary Seyton; she was nearly faint
ement when it was a question of defending his sister and his queen. This refusal
ed by an uproar with which we were so familiar■that we could no longer mistake i
l, and the Duc de Riviere, governor of Marseilles, furnished him with a safe-con
ncestors helped to found it. Furthermore, we do declare that as soon as circumst
n immediately walked round the scaffold till he faced her a■ain; then, as he was
to the court that all those of the Reformed religion were in favour of revolt." 
e—a hate which had come down to them from their fathers, and which they would pa
 who had till then, in what concerned preaching, borne away the palm at Loudun. 
 be thus carried away in her ecstasy, she abruptly drew back, quite rosy with co
words, Douglas bowed more respectfully than he had yet done, ■nd withdrew, leavi
istributing the little she had with scrupulous fairness, and still more accordin
es enjoined on a member ■f the family to make the queen easy, but George Douglas
 a really German heart, and that would consider me as a coward and an unworthy s
 he carried off the inhabitants of the district of Guillan and shut them up in t
 avenge her whom they could not save." Then Elizabeth again flew into a pas■ion,
d his doubts and fears. "I will answer with my head," said the general,■"that no
 c■urage!" "Brave and loyal heart!" cried Mary, "more constantly devoted to misf
ch and arrested those who had caused the disturbance. T■e crowds tried to rescue
 of arms which we have just related, he learned that a horrible murder had been 
 pass through the villag■ they must first give up their weapons. It may easily b
performed the service of marriage between himself and his mistress. The more abs
en for each captain, five for each lieutenant, two for each sergeant, and one fo
 across the space with lightning rapidity, and reached the gorge befo■e the enem
las. As to your Majesty, reflect that they are waiting dinner for yo■. I hope," 
ce Marechal Vil■ars. His first care was to learn from M. de Baville the exact st
f the courtyard he heard them outside, and perceived that they were making ready
, feeling that if he insisted on the performance of the rite by day he would com
 ordered suitable accommodation to be provided for Cavalier and his ■roops; the 
r position to fire down at their enemies. M. de Dourville, in command of the dra
e in the name of the royal power, and both those who broke or those who tried to
al and the intendant hastened to follow it: the informer was sent to Nimes guard
fluence, MM. Chabot-Latour, Saint-Aulaire, and Lascour were elected to the Chamb
logged; but they have taken good care to put no signatures. I regard it as a ver
consolation be vain, but also unreasonable, far from continuing to react against
ving died of the plague at Calais, the queen, whatever wish she m■ght have to be
ng out from the Rhone bridge, hid themselves by the side of the high road to Poi
avours are to me su■e warrants for that love, and answer to me for your heart; m
n. Mary■had been present at the battle, and the calm and courage she displayed h
ut of this measure, and he at once took all possible precautions. Under the pret
n I should have spoken to you in a more gentle voice, and bending the knee, alth
 "Kill! Kill!" and "To arms! To arms!" Grandval and his men, who had been sent t
me out, who■took tender leave of a woman on the threshold. The handsome young ma
et was on the point of being executed when some Sisters of Mercy from the town t
 a time. Villas lived three hours longer on his wheel, and expired without havin
, to set out the next day, very early in the morning, with the Charolais regimen
that the vindication of his innocence had been complete and brilliant, it was in
de■s Cavalier was about to give the troops, that they might consult among themse
 ran across some fields to take shelter in a c■untry house called Rouviere, whic
enge herself at one and the same time on her husband and his companions: she set
 detachment of troops in the village of Riviere. Muller instantly mounted his ho
y on me. I confess that I have written to several persons, that I have implored 
was so well ordered that it presented little which his enemies could use as a ha
ll without knowing why, and we are told, ’You must have patience; it is not poss
een General Gilly and General Grouchy, the capitulation was carried into effect.
tand that being faithful to my religion and my king, and shocked at the seditiou
e out Lord Lindsay of Byres, the same who, a week before, had brought her to her
 an enemy who does not■appear in the lists; however, believe me, if Mary had inh
de. "Well," said Cavalier, "our demands are three first, liberty of conscience; 
ave left the kingdom because of their religion be allowed to return in freedom a
is word that he would send a man on horseback after him, who would overtake him 
 granted to him perhaps for his conduct on this occasion, advanced towards the m
articularly intimate with my well-beloved Dittmar of Anspach; Dittmar, that is t
His protection, will it not?" Mary Seyton smiled, nodding that she adopted her m
of hostilities, was not without influence on the Camisards; every day letters ar
office of prophet, and two young lieutenants had joined Laporte. One of these wa
ich held it to the shoulders. At last, when the head was quite severed, the exec
ague, Abbe de Belmont. When he arrived at the Calquieres, the red-tufts, who sti
ore resolute than ever. Till midnight the queen remained at the window, her eyes
n to the uttermost farthing, and set about collecting all the evidence which was
le fellow was employed by the fanatics to strangle Catholic children. Although n
nd them, drawn by curiosity, full of terrible anxiety, came her dearest ladies a
e a show of having a trial and to hang him afterwards. But such a death did not 
 victims. In this case, a man wishing to amuse the crowd took his pipe out of hi
orance of this proclamation, we order it to be publicly read and posted up in ev
 Chief Jus■ice of the kingdom, to make investigations; the same day that this or
ircase, where we waited while Mr. Widemann finished dressing. This little room w
s a part of the mattress; so that, having thrown them out of the window all in f
hat sometimes I doubt, so, in your letters, which I am impatiently expecting, ha
 a few years before in consequence of a decree of the Parliament of Aix, in Prov
rst to set an example was Castanet. On September 6th, a week after the defeat of
ttempted to make the conspirators worthy of their enterprise, and thus arose his
your keeping: you will charge yourself wi■h her, and keep her safe till our retu
 place but only stay a moment, then take their way again without one’s knowing t
ed to make one last attempt, and, almost hopeless, she put her light near the wi
een for so long, asked him what they ought to do; Cava■ier replied that if they 
places granted to the houseless villagers as an asylum, asked and received forma
en limbs dangling, to the burning pile, on which he was thrown. From the midst o
volunteers organised themselves into companies, and became known under the name 
permitted to leave the kingdom, taking their effects with them. 4. That those Ca
rd had been brought that they we■e all gathered there. They, however, received i
vereign queen, anointed and consecrated in the church of God, and cannot, and ou
 Stuart, "did I not tell you?" "And I, madam," said George, "what did I reply th
ng us?" she asked him with terror. "O■t of the castle," replied the child. "But 
 so long closed, in present circumstances, and in face of the fact that the civi
 not allowed either, and as the servants wanted to pass by force, the soldiers r
hildren of God will bear away the victory. If ye doubt this, come in your number
iment, which not being up to its full war-strength had been sent to Nimes to com
e firing had doubtless giv■n the alarm, took at a gallop the road to Seyton’s ca
have, while there, restored tranquillity to my subjects, you must now defend the
and immediately directed his steps to the house of Isabeau. He was just about t■
eart was silent as regarded the Earl of Bothwell, and that, if she should ever r
healed, should we fall back into a worse disease than that which we are leaving 
 under some sheds, as much to keep themselves from the cold as that they might n
was in or■er, he had formed patrols of chasseurs, and had himself, accompanied b
which they enforced the rules of the order. Their plan was to raise once more th
. When their director died, it so happened that the boarders took advantage of t
-George, after having been proclaimed King of Scotland as James VIII, and of Eng
near his which he believed deserted; next day he asked Alexander D■rham whence i
heir officers into the Cevennes by way of Dauphine or by water, and w■ile waitin
 give it your support, as they do not doubt you will, knowing your patriotism, y
 if the means employed were only iron tools and the human hand, instead of fire,
 speak of peace to his former shepherd. "Indeed," says Cavalier in his Memoirs, 
ss when there is nothing between you and death but the more or less strong press
er that you reproach me with: I have also offended some■of your subjects, but th
queen, "guilty as he wa■, he is none the less dead on my account." "When it conc
om her companion’s hands,■opened it, and read: "The moment draws near; your adhe
y different kinds of howl, so many threats of death, so many rags; so many odd w
its all the battlefields near to the road that he follows. On the 18th of Octobe
 killed him was Soubeyrand. Maillie, Grimaud, Coutereau, Guerin, and Ressal, the
his episcopal robes, but without his mitre, cross, or cope, was awaiting at the 
ag high enough nor unfurl it fully.■When we got to the guardhouse at the Crown G
 was really the case, and went away. Some time after, seeing that everything had
rse, for the mother was riding on a pil■ion behind the son, and kneeling on the 
a house, his claim to which the chapter, disputed. Here again he displayed the s
 the young chief. The Comte de Tournan, who was in command at Florae, had encoun
 a■d will rejoin you." "What!" said the queen, "the four chosen persons cannot e
r, madam?" asked Ruthven. "Yes," replied Mary Stuart,—"yes, I have heard rebelli
nty-five officers and six hundred soldiers ■illed. This defeat was doubly disast
e-witness relates, the five Camisards bore their tortures not only with fortitud
 uproar the word "Waterloo" emerged distinct; and with this unfamiliar name pron
 valet, and passing on foot through the Loulle gate, followed by a second carria
self. Catinat was worthy of his mission. He was a peasant from Cayla, whose real
so long as you inhabit the castle of a Seyton." The queen again thanked all her 
sat up in bed, and■parting the curtains, saw standing before her Lord Lindsay of
n the sofa, quite overcome by the thought that only that morning my wife had bee
mind, a l■vely imagination, gentle ways, and at the same time much boldness and 
t put off again for the castle. As the boat drew nearer, Mary’s presentiments ch
ness-box that Grand■er was seated and the women scattered over the church; furth
 and austere character, his carelessness in regard to dress, his mature age, his
n of those little princes who made■up the Germanic Diet, and all that the nation
13 "MY DEAR PARENTS,—Until now you have found me submissive to your parental les
es. At the bridge of Quart the villagers of Redressan and Marguerite joined them
commanded by M. ■e Barre, who had put himself at its head with the noble purpose
ttle: it was already too late; the soldiers knew that they were defending the ca
 belonging to the barony■of Boucairan, which M. de La Jonquiere gave up to pilla
 to see him, and that he was to keep himself prepared for a summons to court. Tw
nd Castagnols. Very soon these volunteers organised themselves into companies, a
ud and Magnan were sentenced to the galleys for ten y■ars. Naudaud died there, b
our or five days; however, as they were ■ot disheartened, and returned unceasing
and to confer with him on the matter of the pacification of the troubles of this
 this important duty. This proposition was so clear and promised to produce such
eon arrived. Deep as was the impression produced, the city remained calm, but so
 accompany her daughter, and both joined in persuading me that there was no dang
he entreaties of the nuns, she had told a lie. Upon this, the woman was sent■nce
her went to seek Roland and Ravanel to try and obtain a cessation of hostilities
s became James VI. C■APTER III Directly she was delivered, Mary sent for James M
mstadt, in order to assassinate Kotzebue. Now, as we are about to set before our
n. The landlord had rightly thought that there was no better way of getting rid 
wakening and sustaining the zeal of the inhabitants, who at my suggestion, on th
f the marshal were guilty he desired a trial and not a murder. Meantime a certai
lied the messenger: "it really wa■ Sir Robert Melville and Lord Lindsay; but the
ther hour, and return i■ a third; let us allow one hour more for unforeseen dela
 citizen of Vezenobre, but as the lonely life dissatisfied a young man who was e
justice to the King of Prussia, and of Dorothea Jane Wilheltmina Schapf, his wif
, that the ball, having passed through the regent’s heart, killed ■he horse of a
ee thousand men were awaiting the queen at Hamilton, which she reached the same 
ean Lauze, an innkeeper who had prepared meals for Ravanel; La Jeunesse, a preac
Angele de Bresse established such an order in Italy, with the same rules as t■e 
s friends, Catholics as zealous as himself, who engaged their life and honour in
ked into the great hall of the castle, its only outlet, she had crossed this hal
e any information about the life and death of Sand?" "With what object, sir?" th
 I have promised you. As for you, be sure to act in the same way towards those t
h restored to her a little strength, the queen re-entered her room, and, tired o
ears this cottage became a shrine for pilgrims; but after a time, little by litt
 open; and as to their posture, I think I made it sufficiently clear when in the
and arrived, in which the Camisard chief asked M. de Villar■ to grant him an int
ayonets in great quantities, as well as eighty horses, these latter enabling Cav
nd during all the last events; he was in the county of Fife when the king was as
 of them said, ’I am going to kill all the Catholics at once, and shall begin wi
ed his cap, above the peak of which were embroidered three interlaced oak leaves
th a woman who had steadfastly refused to show him any favour, and he had got fi
the greatest affair which, in our memory, has been submitted to men’s judgment. 
ers. Louis XIV was determined, no matter what it cost, to root out heresy, and s
 seated at the end of the table in the said hall, and the said commissioners abo
eassured her; for she understood that, while she stayed in the castle, this cere
 at every instant the noise of a false alarm sounded through the town, and■when 
gainst this union: the one was Lord Herries, and the other James Melville. Mary 
s always protected by a guard of soldiers, he sent for the officer in command an
r who was paying her this unforeseen visit. "We are fortunate to-day," said she,
ing off all chance of retreat from their comrades. In the eve■t; however, it tur
 a man whose worth he appreciated, and told him that the great lords and ladies 
at one day when she had gone with Bothwell to Alway, she left there again immedi
 by the example of people who have money into spending four florins—an expendi■u
ood things of this world, and only desires those celestial good things which dea
f the■Lord, which had always come to their aid, was still stretched out over the
ount, seeing that Queen Elizabeth had no authority over a queen, as she was her 
eived, but he sent for a midwife and ordered her to examine the young girl. At t
 castle cannonade, but to give notice to a troop of faithful friends, who were w
d agreed upon between the above-mentioned plenipotentiaries the 8th day of April
that they were coming to read his sentence to him; he asked a moment to rise, wh
 de Lalande followed him with perfect confidence, and,■passing by the eight hors
"What means this violence, sir priest?" said the Warden of the Marches. "I came 
d in her history. Lady Lochleven, wife of Lord William Douglas, of whom we have 
 German people, nay, all humanity, which he embraces in his gigantic plans of po
 woman by perfidious advisers or disloyal lords." "Madam," cried Ruthven, in spi
ajesty the King of France, to whom, besides the long despatch of M. de Chateaune
gitimate sovereign to any but themselves. This species of selection apparently w
he terrible wounds which Montrevel and the Duke of Berwick had dealt her. For si
e new recruit whom I had just gained. The usual greetings were exchanged, and th
 seized and forced into my hands. I was then dragged down into the courtyard, an
us as if it had been a pardon and not a sentence of death; then, when Beale had 
the ambassador’s compliments, and ceased altogether when he admitted that Mary S
awaken a general feeling of gaiety. In the evening the streets resounded with s■
atholics, are the instruments which Providence uses to prevent us from becomin■ 
ble position, either on the peak of a high mountain or in the bottom of a rocky 
the two official■, seeing there was nothing more to be got out of the superior, 
wn one and up another, till chance brought him near La Poissonniere. Here he per
character, his carelessness in regard to dress, his mature age, his tried courag
without seeing this friend otherwise than she had just done-that is, on the lake
person and our country of which you are very noble and chief members; we summon,
uld make up my mind to fol■ow, so we went on, but found a strong guard at the ga
e to lose, with your permission we shall send for the Dean of Peterborough, the 
served it; and perhaps if we search well we shall find among the signatures the 
tants by reopening their places of worship, which had been closed for more than 
 together and came to felicitate her. Meanwhile, they hastily collected some wre
ather than remain a prisoner for life. He succeeded in getting possession of a f
s article by withdrawing with their arms and ba■gage. As this infraction of the 
______’s house■ on the road to Montpellier, was sacked and wrecked and a bonfire
s: the que■n, my august mistress, will provide for them as is suitable. Has your
softly into the hall. In a few moments, during which silence and darkness reigne
 what reason he had joined the fanatics. He went on to say that as he had not jo
 where Roland awaited him. After a conference of two hours, it was agreed th■t h
etrating a barbarism, spoke through the nun’s closely clenched teeth. This being
een, then, but as woman. As regards education, she could sustain comparison with
ring crosses and epaulets, and, rejoicing in their impunity, imagine they have e
 rank than I, who would not do it, and who would not make use of the help and su
 form part of this army will repair to such garrisons as may be assigned to them
wedding towards six o’clock in the evening, and came to pay him a visit, accompa
lve days Mignon and Barre spent the greater part of their time at the convent; s
of communication with George through Little Douglas; for no doubt it was he who 
n the famous campaign of 1688 the command of a regiment which was sent to the ai
ry, Sand did not stagger. After the judgment had been read, he sat down again an
s containing ointments, drugs and lint■ and lastly a complete arsenal of muskets
s, for in everything I rely on your friendship." "This sonnet accompanied the le
, at the end of a few minutes, she did not see it reappear, and when, half an ho
t; this is of what I ca■e to inform your grace, not with the empty ceremonial of
 me just now was but an abdication pure and simple, and I was going to sign it. 
r, M. Desmonts, was president of the■Consistory, his life was in much less dange
d at equal distances along the road, were now Royalist and now Bonapartist. Befo
 which one could still make out in the dusk, it remained shut up, and seemed des
me to do him the honour. After supper, as I was leaning on his shoulder near the
for Durham, he had set out the moment he received permission. It was nine o’cloc
he ne■t day he paid a visit to M. de Paratte, and instead of demanding satisfact
ost, welcomed him with cheers. But Cavalier had something else to do than to cel
ings have now got so far that there will be great difficulty in calming the gene
eld out his hand to me, but I threw myself into his arms and gave him a last emb
 for they might as well pursue a sea swallow on Solway Firth as try to reach us.
l power was made in the name of the royal power, and both those who broke or tho
d money, the discontented in the provinces had leagued together in order to prov
ing cebets were wounded. While this struggle was going on at the palace, the spi
he meantime the boy’s father had come up, and him they tried to constrain to sho
God, I despise death, wh■ch I protest I receive innocent of every crime, even if
." "But, then, doctors of what?" "Of surgery." "Really?" said I. "With us it is 
e Roland’s troops had increased greatly in number, having been joined by the mai
beyond which Cavalier and his comrades awaited him in order of battle. Having go
ld impel me to die if not my devotion to you and to Germany, and the need of pro
cers. These rushed out, crying, ’To arms!’ The townspeople were not slow to resp
e all the terrible zaou, which from moment to moment became more full of menace.
 expectant group, which was composed, as we have said, of Villars, Baville, and 
 to the Reformed religion, Darnley did not hear of it till nearly two months aft
, who ordered him to be taken to the chateau de Loches. After a year’s imprisonm
scouraged by the result of the proceedings at Poitiers, scarcely made any defenc
ne. There was one great cry; the enthusiasm was universal; the National Guard wa
ur of an amnesty, and offering a reward of 150 Louis to whoever delivered him up
