ed, "I have presentiments which refuse to be shaken off. I am not so old that age can have weakened my powers and reduced me to childishness, I cannot even say 
 advance. The Camisard outposts soon perceived the movement, and warned Ravanel, who held his little council of war. Everyone was in favour of instant retreat, 
ted herself in the pose most favourable to her, in a great arm-chair, the only one in her sitting-room, she said smilingly to Mary Seyton that she might admit L
by the court of Avignon, so henceforth you will be no better than his slave." "Count of Artois, you are dreaming." "No, madam, I am not dreaming: I have this fa
 thinking that the prefect ought to be aware of everything connected with the public order, he related this incident to M. d’Arbaud-Jouques, but the latter did 
ary to put under constraint, if they shall be required so to do." Furnished with this order, which was equivalent to a condemnation, de Laubardemont arrived at 
ent on his way unheeding. All the opponents whom till now Urbain had encountered had been entirely unconnected with each other, and had each struggled for his o
wed me? Even if I could so lose my reason and my memory, are not my wife and son ever here to remind me that to you we owe all our life, our honour, and our for
t, every instant between themselves and the enemy, despite the efforts of Laporte to make them stand their ground. At last, seeing himself deserted, Laporte beg
ry head, Cavalier shouted so loud that not only his own men heard but also those of the enemy: "My children, if our hearts fail us now, we shall be taken and br
on had crossed the Parisian bounds. A young man from the country, intending to start as a grocer in the capital, applied to Derues for the necessary information
lake," the child answered, "but he is no longer there." The queen felt her heart’s blood grow cold, at the same time that a chilly sweat broke out to the roots 
atriots from the adjacent towns and villages, who came in in small parties till they formed quite an army. At five A.M. M. de St. Pons, knowing that the windows
e South, I should think that without contradiction it would be that which we took that day. Along the four leagues which lie between Beaucaire and Nimes were po
to follow the young enthusiast, not only in all the actions of his life, but also in all the thoughts of his mind and all the hesitations of his conscience. In 
 them. This time the fraud was so glaring that even de Laubardemont exhibited some signs of confusion because of the number and quality of the spectators. He wo
ine in Professor Grunler’s house; we loved each other, upheld each other in our efforts, and, well or ill, bore our good or evil fortune in common. On this last
with a howling mob the possession of the blood for which it thirsted. Both dashed to their posts, one in the hall, the other in the dining-room, and found door 
then, at daybreak, they stopped at the gate of the castle of West Niddrie, belonging to Lord Seyton, as we have said, and situated in West Lothian. Douglas spra
o had helped to bury the chest. He felt that he was lost, but his audacity never forsook him. "You are here, in the first place, to be confronted with this woma
d’Aygaliers found supporters who were at once intelligent and genuine in the Duke de Chevreuse and the Duke de Montfort, his son. These two gentlemen brought ab
 that I had the gout, and I forgot that I am not the only sufferer, and that it racks the old age of the philosopher quite as much as that of the courtier." The
ermination, till at last the abbe threw his arms round his servant and presented his own body to the blows directed at the other." The author of The Troubles in
 on these children and on myself." She rose calm and strengthened: it seemed as if a heavenly inspiration had marked out her duty. To suffer in silence, such wa
pit till it was five and a half feet deep. While the man worked, Derues sat beside the chest and read. When it was half done, the mason stopped for breath, and 
nd born a queen, obedient to no one, save to God, to whom alone I must give an account of my actions. This is why I protest yet again that my appearance before 
 your age and your friendship. Mr. Sheriff," added she, "call someone to support me, for you see that I cannot walk." The sheriff bowed, and signed to two guard
proval, of course. Now, as I have the misfortune to possess very hardhearted parents, they have had the cruelty to refuse me their consent. Love led me astray, 
 was Karl-Ludwig Sand, who was coming from Jena, by way of Frankfort and Darmstadt, in order to assassinate Kotzebue. Now, as we are about to set before our rea
in-charge, accused and denounced as a magician by the said possessed nuns, was brought from his prison to the said church. "There were produced by the said comm
elancholy and preoccupied, and that evening at supper refused to eat, repeating over and over again— "’It was wrong of me to deny Grandier the confessor he aske
eply, when the young man with the dark hair appeared on the threshold, without being announced, and, advancing towards Lady Lochleven, without saluting Mary— "M
xecution, will be defrayed from the funds of the law department, on account of his want of means." We see that, though it condemned the accused to death, which 
or her sake, and finally one hundred and fifty crowns to Bourgoin to be divided among them all when they should separate; and thus twenty-six or twenty-seven pe
ueen of Scotland, in the months of November and December 1586 and January 1587.] The said lady being seated at the end of the table in the said hall, and the sa
ypocrites, leave me alone!" But the two abbes were unmoved, and Castanet expired cursing, not the executioner but the two priests, whose presence during his dea
me days after the execution of Grandier, Pere Lactance fell ill of the disease of which he died. Feeling that it was of supernatural origin, he determined to ta
 queen’s husband. To confer on him authority nearly equalling a regent’s, it was necessary that Mary should grant him what was termed the crown matrimonial—a cr
 Sea in safety, they saw the army of Pharaoh swallowed up in the waters, so that although no longer within reach of bullets the defeated troops were still pursu
e father Don Philip of Cabassole, Bishop of Cavaillon, vice-chancellor of the kingdom of Sicily, and the magnificent lords Philip of Sanguineto, seneschal of Pr
ne o’clock in the morning, the hour when the exorcisms began, the bailiff went over at once to the convent, and found Barre half way through the mass, and the s
fused to send in their names, but as they had said they had come to inquire about the duke, she suspected them of having been in league with the chevalier in th
g two years in perfect amity with me, has, in a fit of angry vengeance, thought she could give the lie to all her words and actions? Ah! Bertrande," he continue
tier and join him. Castanet was condemned to be broken on the wheel. As he was about to be led to execution, Abbe Tremondy, the cure of Notre-Dame, and Abbe Plo
 this object he despatched us to your Majesty, had not conceived that it was possible, in any case, to determine so promptly upon such an execution, we implore 
 keys, which till then had been left with her, and the chest was got downstairs without any awkward questions. Only the porter seemed astonished that this suppo
 came to light. He was a man of from twenty-five to twenty-six years of age, who idled his life away: his courage was undoubted, and being as credulous as an ol
his coronation it will be carried before him." "And you believe," said Joan, pale as a corpse in its shroud, "—you believe that this flag is a threat?" "Ay, and
 spread over the mountain-side, putting a greater and greater distance at, every instant between themselves and the enemy, despite the efforts of Laporte to mak
, rose and went out to meet the prisoner, in order to convince himself that it was really Catinat. From the Presidial Court he was brought before the Duke of Be
had put himself at its head with the noble purpose of preventing, as far as he could, massacre and pillage. In this he was seconded by the officers under him, w
ance!" Darkness fell while she was still lamenting; and then, as the view was blotted out and she was summoned to supper, "It is indeed now, dear France," said 
 beg him to wait till Saturday and Sunday the 7th and the 8th June were over, before resorting to severity, that being the end of the truce. He gave him a solem
 marred the delicacy of her complexion, and coarsened the naturally elegant curves of her figure; but it is such women who from time immemorial have had the str
art of the island which, turning its back to the capital, beholds afar the blue crests of Capri. Nothing could be simpler or brighter. The brick walls were hung
 told him that he was commissioned to obtain from him a promise of not speaking to the people at the place of execution. Sand gave the promise, and added, "Even
for sixty at the outside, though he was really over eighty. He had all his teeth, which were as white as pearls, and showed them proudly. His brow, calm and res
! That is very flattering, my dear cousin; you do not often spoil me by such attentions. No, I have not been ill, thank God, but I thought it better not to intr
whatever assistance is necessary to carry out above order; and they are commanded by these presents to obey all orders given by the said Sieur; and all governor
ormed beforehand, requested a certain Canon Rousseau to accompany them, and set out with him and their clerk for the convent. On arriving, they asked for Mignon
ed man spoke with an English accent.’" Sainte-Foix proved the story related by M. de Blainvilliers to be little worthy of belief, showing by a circumstance ment
tented at the will, and might accuse those who had been present of having taken away from their share to add to their own, he begged Mary to send for them all a
y would not be able, he felt sure, to point him out with certainty, in spite of the allegations of undue intimacy with themselves they brought against him. This
eneschal, Godfrey of Marsan, Count of Squillace, and Robert of Cabane, Count of Eboli; the two women talking in a low voice with the eager gesticulations are Ca
 first was maintained by M. Quentin-Crawfurd; the second by Abbe Soulavie in his ’Memoires du Marechal Duc de Richelieu’ (London, 1790). In 1783 the Marquis de 
im with a daughter, gave birth to a son in February 1774. Derues, in order to better support the airs of grandeur and the territorial title which he had assumed
ow the Duc de Vitry off the scent. The duke, however, though for a moment in doubt, was guided by the sound of the flying footsteps. The chevalier, still trying
offered to accompany her daughter, and both joined in persuading me that there was no danger. At last I was forced to consent, but only on one condition. "’I ca
ow his passion openly was Bastiano, the most devoted and dearest friend of Gabriel; but Bastiano did not please her. So, trusting in her beauty, upheld by the m
testants placed their sole reliance for the maintenance of those rights guaranteed for the future by the word of the prince, they hesitated to take any new step
 chair, begging Mr. G——to stand near enough to support him if he should chance to stagger. The precaution was unnecessary, Sand did not stagger. After the judgm
is time, as his letters to Chamillard remained unanswered, and finding himself without resources in a foreign country, he believed himself justified in returnin
grange-Chancel. He was just twenty-nine years of age when, excited by Freron’s hatred of Voltaire, he addressed a letter from his country place, Antoniat, in Pe
hat had been brought; then, this transaction ended. "So the queen will not appear to-day?" Lady Lochleven inquired. "It is her Majesty’s resolve," replied Mary 
brarian, are very happy to have an opportunity of exhibiting our zeal, in placing the said manuscript in His Majesty’s library. "8th July, 1724." "(Signed) JEAN
ver excited and frenzied the crowd was, it instantly realised the consequences of this act. It was no longer like the murder of Marshal Brune at Avignon or Gene
was aided by some workmen whom he did not wish to betray, or had employed other means. "’One day, however, he unguardedly asked me to show him the portraits of 
till we meet again in heaven." Then, leaning on the old man, whose face was bathed in tears, she descended the staircase, at the foot of which she found the two
er’s marriage was childless. There is only one way of proving the relationship, and that is to confess that when your brother was young and wild he and Love met
 they crossed the river. They now thought themselves out of danger, thanks to this manoeuvre, but suddenly they saw another detachment of royals lying on the gr
king of the yellow eyelids which fell over the round and hollow eyes, shining with a sombre fire which he could never entirely suppress, reminded one of a bird 
 the queen’s orders, and were present neither at the reading of the sentence nor at the execution.] "Considering the sentence by us given, and others of our Cou
eet door a few moments ago; there’s no one else in the house likely to have visitors at this hour. Perhaps her admirer has come back." "If so, we are going to w
o cast round for the best means of retrieving his blunder. "You do not speak," he said; "I see it was all a joke." "No," said the widow at last in a timid voice
hole battlefield." "No, not there! not there!" said the queen in terror: "within that castle I came to spend the first days of my marriage with Darnley; it will
s in the hands of Conrad Lupo, one of his captains, he embarked hastily at Berletta, and left the kingdom in very much the same way as Louis of Tarentum, fleein
ollections to reality, she shed tears, and called on her husband and son. So deep was her reverie that she did not hear the room door open, did not perceive tha
 simply a massacre; a certain number of the dragoons entered the mill sword in hand, stabbing all whom they could reach, whilst the rest of the force stationed 
ve a plain answer without delay. Such a way of speaking to him was so strange and unexpected, that Cavalier shrugged his shoulders and replied that such matters
emed for a moment to encourage them. Among others, Prince Louis of Prussia was grandmaster of one of these societies. The attempted murder by Stops, to which we
like to know if the hour of your deliverance approaches or recedes, in your turn place a light in this window. The other will immediately disappear; then, placi
 did not live happily with her, which was only what he deserved for making such a marriage" (Letter of the Duchesse d’Orleans, 2nd November 1717). "She (the que
he would make capital out of his resentment. Be that as it might, Charles wormed himself into Andre’s heart, and after a few days one of them could hardly be se
f exercising hospitality in my turn. But you are ill, the day is cold and damp; if you do not care to go out, do not let me disturb you. Had you not better stay
g before. Derues carried dishonesty as far as possible, but he knew how to stop when suspicion was likely to be aroused, and though always planning either to de
 his organisation, Professor Salfranck, a learned and distinguished man, rector of the Hof gymnasium [college], conceived such an affection for him, that when, 
hed retail business, and left the Saint Victor neighbourhood, having taken an apartment in the rue des Deux Boules, near the rue Bertin-Poiree, in the parish of
at the most disaffected amongst the fanatics should not be able to say that it was not really Catinat, Ravanel, Villas, and Jonquet who had been executed but so
ere new accusations and new sentences. The prisons were crowded: Louis’s punishments were redoubled in severity. A fear arose that the town, and indeed the whol
 rather see his kingdom destroyed than consent to such a measure." "Monseigneur," replied the baron, "if that is the case, then I must say with great regret tha
were not the pain of the wound she gave herself? for the most courageous cannot repress a shudder when the surgeon opens a vein. Why were her finger-tips staine
 Paris, and the organised revolt led by distinguished men against Louis XIV on his accession to the throne, proclaimed aloud the king’s illegitimacy, so that it
kirt, that fell to her feet like those severe robes in which the Byzantine painters preferred to drape their angels. She was indeed a marvel, and so rare and mo
rred on it—three on Catholics, and three on Protestants. At the same time, M. Daunant, M. Olivier Desmonts, and M. de Seine, the first the mayor, the second the
s and customs of the court, she was chosen at the birth of Joan and her sister to be governess and mistress over the young girls, and at this juncture Raymond w
PTER I Some royal names are predestined to misfortune: in France, there is the name "Henry". Henry I was poisoned, Henry II was killed in a tournament, Henry II
these words; whenever this horrible thought takes hold of me, let me come to you: this threat of bloodshed that is drummed into my ears, this sinister vision th
approaching is concentrated on an only child! If I lost Edouard I should die!" "I suppose, then, as you let him go, his presence at Paris was necessary?" "No; h
 not for the sanctity of the place and the character of those present, of whom Grandier, in outward seeming at least, was the least amazed of any, although he h
anner if I could tell them where the friend of that rascal Brine was, as they were going to take away his appetite for bread. So take my advice,’ she continued,
ible, and a St. Thomas for my consolation; and above all, do not grieve for me. I trust that, God will bring my innocence to light. Commend me to my brother and
eady to fall in their turn; and should I, then, hesitate to die? "That I do not recognise your love, or that your love is but a trifling consideration with me, 
as terrified both by the plague and by the riots, and disappeared in the middle of the night. Leaving the government of Naples in the hands of Conrad Lupo, one 
not give rise to any suspicions. At the dinner-hour Douglas brought, as he had said, a parcel of cord. It was not enough, but when evening came Mary Seyton was 
f person, and she begged me to sit down and wait for her husband. I thought it would be uncivil not to do so, and Monsieur Derues appeared in about two hours. T
t, so much did I fear a repulse. I set out to-morrow. Quit Paris, leave the world which has slandered you, and come with me. In a fortnight we shall be man and 
opment, and felt that the chances were so much against him that he would only have faced the encounter if there were no possible way of escape. On leaving the h
p their positions in the adjacent streets. On the other hand, the Consistory had decided that the doors were to be opened an hour sooner than usual, that the be
been pronounced at the Carmelite convent, he was taken by the grand provost’s officer, with two of his archers, accompanied by the provosts of Loudun and Chinon
st was uncovered and hoisted out of the trench; it was opened, and the body of a woman was seen, clad only in a chemise, with a red and white headband, face dow
rom the town threw themselves at the marshal’s feet end begged for his life: after long supplication, he granted their prayer, but he banished the valet not onl
ing. And therefore, to ensure that this duel shall take place, we definitely propose as a site either Paris, in the presence of the King of France, or one of th
contrived to impose on the magistrate, or, at least, to suggest grave doubts to his mind. Derues, with his usual cunning, had conformed his language to the qual
ead against her; and, made wise by experience, she was resolved not to compromise her future as she had compromised her past. But while playing at virtue she ha
then withdrew it. "Oh! I thirst-that water! . . . For pity’s sake, give me some!" "Yes, but on one condition you must tell me your whole history." "Yes . . . bu
y more, and as the honey had been sent in confidence, and there was no contract and no receipt to show, the provincial tradesman could not obtain compensation. 
se dashed through the windows without waiting to open them, others rushed in at the open door. The marshal, thus taken by surprise, rose, and not wishing that t
all their might. On both sides arose a determined resistance, different in method, similar in result. In the case of the peasants labour came to a stand-still; 
re of voices, refusing obedience for the first time, perhaps, to an order from the prophet; "let him die without mercy, as he struck without pity. Death to the 
ayment of the hundred thousand livres, and to give authority to the Sieur de Lamotte, her husband, to receive the arrears of the remainder of the price of the s
might be conveyed to the superior, and that the proper thing to do was, before beginning new conjurations, to await the return of the messengers. Although the b
 provost’s lieutenant, and a clerk. They had to knock repeatedly before anyone seemed to hear them, but at length a nun opened the door and told them they could
se unlucky lines which returned to your mind have led you, the very day when you were beginning to recover a little of your cheerfulness." "Alas!" replied the q
 year later was sent to Mende, with the titles of Arch-priest of the Cevennes and Inspector of Missions. Soon the abbe, who had been so much persecuted, became 
 face of the cliff which rose up to our right; to our left flowed the Gardon. "Having gone about a league, we came in sight of the troops, about 3000 strong; an
nt-Jean-des-Anels. From there we marched towards Uzes. In the middle of a forest, near a village, the name of which I have forgotten, our General M. de Vogue to
the walls with such rapidity, that the soldiers had no time to repossess themselves of their muskets, and even had they succeeded in seizing them they would hav
lls, which showed a black outline against a yet fiery western sky, then let it fall on a little grove of olive trees planted on the farther side of the brook wh
seeing the flames which enveloped the houses of their old enemies, joined together, and arming themselves with everything that could be made to serve as an inst
Sainte-Ursule, there to remain in perpetuity; and before this sentence is carried out, we order the said Grandier to be put to the question ordinary and extraor
es whose houses were burnt or otherwise destroyed during the war be exempt from taxes for seven years. ’Granted. "8. That it may please His Majesty to permit Ca
ng sermon, at which all the Protestants of the neighbourhood were present. The two battalions of the Charolais regiment which were quartered at Calvisson had re
 give him a distaste for this world he kept on talking to him of the other. Then, with a sudden change, he questioned him minutely about all sorts of past matte
e which I sell on commission." They went down together. After examining the place, and ascertaining that it was not too damp for the expensive wine which he wis
d to die. But Sir Amyas Paulet, coarse and harsh as he was to Mary Stuart, declared that, so long as she was with him she would have nothing to fear from poison
to combat and efface this antagonistic feeling, and replace it by confidence, using different means according to the persons he had to deal with. He understood 
 given against Queen Mary, which decided them to return to Richmond to make fresh remonstrances to Queen Elizabeth. After two or three fruitless journeys, they 
amine into the offence, and to condemn the guilty persons, whosoever they might be. Babington, not at all discouraged by the example of his predecessors, assemb
eir usual course. Thousands of men and women crowded together along the route which the death-cart would take; an ocean of heads undulated like the ears in a wh
patches from General Ambert, from which he learned that it was the general’s intention, in order to avoid the danger of a civil war, to separate the Duc d’Angou
other exorcists should come out. At length the door opened and the royal commissioner appeared, whereupon Sister Jeanne des Anges, throwing herself at his feet,
m of my beloved husband, his power being supreme for evil, the resemblance would be exact, and no difference, however slight, would exist. If, however, it is on
l of Heaven that the seemingly lost cause of those in whom he took such a warm interest should ultimately triumph. He presented Mignon and all his friends to M.
e grief of Joan and her friends was changed to indignation. Just as the clock of San Giovanni struck twelve, the gate of the magnificent palace of the Durazzo f
larger dose than enough to produce a deep sleep. You will take care to prepare me a good ladder for to-night; after which you will go and wait for me in my boat
essed me much; yours only brings back my uncertainty. It is less possible than ever to deliver any opinion on this serious question of dreams, since the second 
ose. We hastened to my house, which was situated in the Allees de Meilhan. My wife was just going out, but I stopped her. "’We are not safe here,’ I said; ’we m
ongue, and when once one begins to listen to him, one can’t help doing what he wants. All the same, I had rather have had to deal with someone else." "And is it
ll cousins. Then she shuddered at the earliest thought of marriage, the constraint, the loss of liberty, the bitter regrets; she remembered with horror the dece
d’s death, then I hold her life and honour in my hands!" FIRST LETTER "When I set out from the place where I had left my heart, judge in what a condition I was,
ance have taken me so far. Sometimes he attacks me in a very sensitive place, and he touches me to the quick when he tells me that his crimes are known, but tha
Foix was, however, not acquainted with the letter of Barbezieux, dated the 13th August 1691, to which we have already referred, as a proof that the prisoner was
f failures, contriving to make dishonesty appear in the light of unfortunate virtue. When this demon was not occupied with poison, his hands were busy with ever
ct a great respect for the royal house, so he avoided much embarrassment to himself and a scandal affecting the memory of Anne of Austria by adopting the wise a
ner than of a queen; for, not having had a moment during the day to attend to her toilet, her hair was falling in disorder about her shoulders, her face was pal
 in his journal. "To-morrow I am to fight with P. G.; yet Thou knowest, O my God, what great friends we formerly were, except for a certain mistrust with which 
deed and of his claim to the possession of the said estate; "Fifthly, in signing or causing to be signed by another person, before the notaries of the town of L
at of the baroness), galloped into the village of Arpaillargues, which was almost entirely Protestant and consequently Napoleonist, announcing that the miquelet
and all who had guns fired at the dead body, which was twice struck. "Tomb of Marshal Brune" was then written on the arch, and the crowd withdrew, and passed th
nd then performed the drama which he had rehearsed upon his friend A. S. Kotzebue, finding his face threatened, put his hands up to it, and left his breast expo
ysterious hope that never deserts youth, she had resigned herself to wait, like some princess who knows that her betrothed will come from a far country. On the 
uented it. This cafe was faced by a guard-house which was occupied by soldiers of the 67th Regiment. The six made a halt, and in the most insulting tones raised
," continued the queen, with that air of profound conviction that an unanswerable argument inspires, "you have remained king by the consent and authority of our
. . I knew her well! and she seemed to have suffered so much——" "Dear boy, your mother is not dead . . . . My God! what terrible chimeras you conjure up! You wi
ught with great difficulty; for, as we have said, the whole family was poor. The following note, in relation to the animal, will give an idea of Sand’s simplici
he poor, she took upon her the rule of obedience in this celebrated convent of Santa Croce, the work of her own hands, in the year 1344, on the gist of January 
nger which threatened made Derues pull himself together. "Do not be alarmed," he said. "My wife has been seized with a violent fever; she is quite delirious now
ations, I appeal to God, who is the only just and true judge, and to the kings and princes, my allies and confederates." This protestation was once more registe
rust dipped in water, a few nuts or figs sufficed to keep this holy man alive—to prevent him, that is to say, from dying. Furthermore, he entertained Nisida by 
e. This caused such smoke that Grandier was hidden for a moment from the eyes of the spectators; when it cleared away, it was seen that his clothes were now ali
hen his whole life is a lie! He has abused my credulity, he now abuses my love! He does not know me! He thinks he can trample on me—me, in whose power are his f
ich had still nine years to run. Being thus obliged to give up business to escape bankruptcy, Madame Legrand surrendered to her creditors any goods remaining in
 his doctor, who each hold one of his dying hands, feeling his pulse anxiously and exchanging looks of intelligence. At the foot of the bed stands a woman about
murder of all who opposed his projects. But Louis of Tarentum, who had won Joan’s heart, and was eagerly trying to get the necessary dispensation for legalising
en to him, and when their marriage was at length completed, the birth of a son seemed only another link in the already long existing bond of union. But, as many
that I cannot repeat to you, and at which you yourself would be surprised: he did not want to let me go; he wanted to make me sit up with him all night. As for 
the danger of such a step; so we sat still our eyes fixed on the approaching figure. But when my brother-in-law reached the inn, I could restrain my impatience 
 four companies of dragoons from Fimarcon and Saint-Sernin. Everything took place as the peasants had said: on Saturday the 13th, the Camisards entered, as we h
neral and without flag, M. de Vogue’s soldiers asked no further counsel of anyone but themselves, and, as one of them has already told us, sixty-four of them jo
ed, which answered all the questions that were addressed to it and foretold the future by means of a magic mirror and the combination of the rules of perspectiv
ot use before the last extremity. So long as you wear this ring on your finger, neither sword nor poison will have power against you." "You see then, mother," s
 for the first time. He glanced at the pile of books Pierre was standing on, and compared it with the length of the cord between the branch and his neck. It was
ght, like a young fawn, exercising the vigour and activity of its limbs. He had still the simplicity and general ignorance of a child of nine or ten. The necess
al-Comtois, two of the Soissonnais infantry, the Languedoc regiment of dragoons, and two hundred dragoons from the Fimarcon regiment. M. de Julien, on his side,
ralised the effect of the measures taken by the military commandant. He soon became cognisant of the fact that the essence of this sanguinary political strife w
ed that if he were not restrained by the consideration he desired to keep for his brother, the Earl of Stafford, his colleague, he would at once denounce his tr
a few steps the fugitives found themselves in a kind of antechamber to the great hall, from which proceeded noise and light. Several servants were occupied ther
you anxious, and to no purpose. I had some business in one of the most crowded parts of Paris; I took a chair, and Edouard walked beside me. In the rue Beaubour
len; in any case, the report wanted confirmation. Napoleon, who knew of the sympathy that the mountaineers felt for him, went at once into the Alps, and his eag
ly, and on the adjuration being renewed she immediately recovered her senses. The examination of the superior being thus cut short, a little nun who appeared fo
h has been cruelly refused, as well as the removal of my body, and the power to make my will freely; so that I cannot write anything except through their hands,
ild. "But we shall have to pass through the great hall?" "Without a doubt; and that is exactly what George foresaw. Among the footmen, whose livery your Majesty
rose with fury, and drove him towards Gaeta, where the queen and her husband had just arrived. Renaud bade his sailors keep in the open, threatening to throw an
cially this 12th day of September 1560." This sentence substituted the gallows for the decapitation decreed by the first judge, inasmuch as the latter punishmen
nt by him or brought in the course of the day. In the meantime, vans were arriving filled with all sorts of provisions, followed by droves of cattle, while a co
f the state of his affairs, but said not one single word of any probable return. I became very uneasy at the news of this clandestine departure. I had no securi
er his master—crossing one of the ante-chambers in the castle, they came upon Andre, who joyfully accosted them; grasping the hand of his cousin Duras in his af
ety and honour is well established; he will permit me to add my praises to yours." "Indeed, I do not know how I deserve so much honour." "I am, Brother Marchois
ing to God for protection. Then addressing himself to the bishop and M. de Laubardemont, he implored them by the ecclesiastical and royal authority of which the
e resorted to conquer the virtue of Nisida. Eligi of Brancaleone was so young, so handsome, so seductive, and at the same time so cool amid his successes, that 
idence in himself, and seeing in the queen’s desire a road to success, hastened to obey her command, sang before her, and pleased her. She begged him then of Mo
 breathe one of those deep sighs that go straight to the heart. She told the tale of her husband’s death painfully and vividly, painted truthfully the mad terro
hing to say to the people he was at liberty to speak. But this was just what the exorcists did not want: they knew Grandier’s eloquence and courage, and a firm,
 the restraining motive, she did not want to go down into the garden before breakfast. When the door opened, ’she turned quickly round: it was, as on the day be
confided himself to the generosity of his enemy England: like Mary Stuart, he was cruelly punished for his confidence, and found in the deadly climate of St. He
ed one end of the cord round her neck to the branch of a tree, and hanged herself. But some of the sisters who had followed her cut her down before life was ext
d with her at his trial was the first time he had ever seen her. At the seventh wedge Grandier’s legs burst open, and the blood spurted into Pere Lactance’s fac
the rape of the Princess Marie?" Anger had so changed Louis’s voice that the last words sounded like the roar of a wild beast: his eyes glittered with a feveris
hed, had taken place: one evening about ten o’clock, while several nuns were still in her room, although she was already in bed, it seemed to her that someone t
country, prepared for the struggle for justice, despises the good things of this world, and only desires those celestial good things which death holds in charge
ts to the marechal, from whom he received orders to set out at once to find Roland and to spare no pains to bring him round. D’Aygaliers, who was always indefat
 Lord Ruthven has not come yet, and since we can do nothing without him, let us wait." "Let wait who will," replied Lindsay, inflamed with anger; "but it will n
rlier Bouche, a lawyer, in his ’Essai sur l’Histoire de Provence’ (2 vols. 4to, 1785), had regarded this story as a fable invented by Voltaire, and had convince
re done, it will be red with the blood of the Protestants!" However, on the 5th of May they ceased to wear it, replacing it by a scarlet tuft, which in their pa
ng up the book of Hours and the crucifix as relics; and Jeanne Kennedy, remembering the little dog who had come to his mistress, looked about for him on all sid
arm; "for our good hostess, out of courtesy, might think herself obliged to keep us company longer, while we know that she is impatiently awaited elsewhere." Wi
ols in his belt and his carbine on his shoulder, he glided from bush to bush and rock to rock, determined, if any weak spot existed, to discover it; but the inf
 of the retreating cebets were wounded. While this struggle was going on at the palace, the spirit of murder broke loose in the town. At the gate of the Madelei
n answered: "it is for this evening, then?" "With your Majesty’s permission, yes, it is for this evening." "Is everything ready?" "Everything." "What are we to 
at she could find it in herself, sought in her entourage for some secret and influential adviser who might have inspired her with it. His suspicions fell on Riz
shrieking, "Vengeance, vengeance!" Divine justice, which knows naught of privilege and respects no crown, struck Joan first of all in her love. When the two lov
ght hundred persons of the Reformed religion. M. de Villars received the request kindly, thanked its bearer and those who accompanied him, assuring them that he
ife, now became doubly greedy and exacting. Dona Cancha no longer put any bridle on her licentiousness, and the Empress of Constantinople ordered her niece to m
in this France that she so much regretted. Born amid the first religious troubles, near the bedside of her dying father, the cradle mourning was to stretch for 
 that you are warned there is no need for me to bluster. I am quite prepared to acknowledge your superior rank, and if you insist upon it, to speak to you uncov
given me a more grievous piece of news than that of the event which has just fallen upon your tutor and father by adoption; nevertheless, terrible though it may
ot have done so; he was now compelled to follow that fatal law of crime which demands that blood must be effaced with blood, and which is compelled to appeal ag
the conduct of the princes and people of Naples in that they had proclaimed Joan alone Queen of Naples, thus overlooking the rights of her husband, and further 
s, third son of the Emperor of Germany; then the Duke of Anjou, who afterwards became Henry III. But to wed a foreign prince was to give up her claims to the En
d serene smile, one of those smiles that have already left the soul and not yet reached the lips, lifted the corners of her mouth with a pure expression of infi
r cruel uncertainty, and resolved to watch Martin closely, before deciding as to his guilt or innocence. How was she to suppose that God had created two faces s
n high estate, like me, Of whom both heart and eye Within the coffin lie? Who, in the tender spring And blossom of my youth, Taste all the sorrowing Of life’s e
, had been given by nature pale cheeks, dark blue eyes, and black hair, had been since coming into the world an object of indifference to his father and of disl
 for: it was such as Derues expected; the lad accepted joyfully. The answer was, for the murderer, an arranged plea of defence, a proof which, in a given case, 
!" But the two abbes were unmoved, and Castanet expired cursing, not the executioner but the two priests, whose presence during his death-agony disturbed his so
 the hero of this gloomy tale had been known at the time, he would now be forgotten. To give him a name would be to relegate him at once to the ranks of those c
s his strong constitution had conquered the poison, another kind of death was sought for. The queen, as she announces in her letter to Bothwell, had refused to 
s. "Certainly I will; I have not known you for ten years in order to leave you in trouble and refuse to answer for you. What the devil are respectable people to
ch I have seen to be lacking to most of those around me. Heaven alone can reward you by a conviction of having so nobly and grandly fulfilled your parental duti
be kept for home use: the whole street was under arrest, and its inhabitants were forbidden to leave their houses. The windows, crammed with anxious faces, ques
nful inquiries, not to feel as I do, that such annoyance, continually recurring, would greatly trouble the pleasure of our companionship, if it did not indeed s
ust and mud. As she proceeded through the town, the hootings of the people and the curses of the crowd followed her. At last, half dead with fatigue, worn out w
 same time a number of pamphlets, entitled Pierre Roman to the Catholics of Nimes, were distributed to the people in the streets, containing among other attacks
least until they heard from the bishop, from whom they expected a letter next day. But it was for the nuns themselves to say whether it was convenient for them 
ds cut in the form of whistles which the abbe pitilessly forced under the nails of malignants; of iron pincers for tearing out their beards, eyelashes, and eyeb
customs of the court, she was chosen at the birth of Joan and her sister to be governess and mistress over the young girls, and at this juncture Raymond was cre
me." "A truce to pleasantry, sir; don’t make me regret that I have shown myself more generous than you. I might have killed you just now had I wished. I could h
sitive to a gentle voice and a tearful eye; you know the story of Achilles’ lance, which healed with its rust the wounds it made with its edge: do likewise my l
e the salutary effect intended, some of those present saying aloud that such oaths smacked of sacrilege. Barre hearing the murmurs, hastened to begin the exorci
ng. "God does not wish," being the appointed answer. The Scotchman laughed heartily at this nonsense, and proposed to Barre to let his devil enter into competit
favourites to use this time in influencing her by their seductive counsels. But Joan’s ability to receive consolation was quite as ready as her grief had at fir
ropped against a post and fast asleep; he awoke him, and proposed that they should exchange clothes. As Jean-Louis’ suit was new and the beggar’s in rags, the l
theory set forth in the ’Memoires de Perse’, against which no irrefutable objections had been advanced. He concluded by saying that before arriving at any decis
d condition, madam," the old lady replied, "it is the fault of the kings of Scotland: the poor Douglases for nearly a century have had such a small part of thei
ture was at rest, the thief reappeared. His extreme avarice now made him regret the expense’ caused by the deaths of Madame de Lamotte and her son, and he wishe
 the said hall, and the said commissioners about her— The Queen of Scotland began to speak in these terms: "I do not admit that any one of you here assembled is
oldly when his aunt came to tell him from the queen that she was about to bring into the world an infant, Andre’s posthumous child. What importance could a babe
e. "The orders are," he said, "to put on the uniforms that are being made for you, and to follow me to Portugal." The effect of such words on men who were expec
e judgment reversed. Urbain Grandier was born at Rovere, a village near Sable, a little town of Bas-Maine. Having studied the sciences with his father Pierre an
that no one should touch a hair of her head, not even the regent." "The devil! my lord," said Ruthven. "I did not know you were so sensitive to a gentle voice a
 in the next." "What are you saying? My own Charles, have mercy! Do not let me die in this horrible uncertainty; what fatal delusion is blinding you? Speak, my 
, while I go to check them. And you," added he, addressing the escort, "be killed to the last man rather than let them take your queen." "George! George!" cried
prise which would have been dangerous for anyone else. He promised first of all to explain to Cavalier the offers of MM. de Baville and de Lalande. Lacombe kept
 she spoke volubly of all manner of things—her aunt, the weather, the Madonna. Then she stopped suddenly, frightened at her own words, frightened at her own sil
so many troops were quartered, such a large number of villains—all murderers, incendiaries, and guilty of sacrilege—gathered together in one place by permission
t and the cause of the wound. La Constantin replied that it’ was the young Chevalier de Moranges, nephew of Commander de Jars, who had had an affair of honour t
to carry out the orders of M. de Villars. De Paratte was happily an old soldier, whose one idea was that discipline should be maintained, so that he gave the gu
panied by an uproar with which we were so familiar that we could no longer mistake its meaning, were heard outside. Opening my window, I heard bloodcurdling imp
ctuality. Andre insisted, and challenging all the barons present to see who would be up first, he retired with the queen to the room that had been reserved for 
ot exactly; but I thought I must be indebted to a man of the lowest class, to some poor fellow who was really starving, and my first effort at gratitude was to 
 that his ears must have deceived him. Feeling that therein lay her best chance of making things smooth, she exerted herself to convince him that there was no n
widow was near fainting again: she imagined at first she saw stains of blood everywhere, but a closer inspection having somewhat reassured her, she began to pic
the calm and courage she displayed had made a lively impression on her wild defenders, who all along the road had heard her say that she would have liked to be 
 PRISONER WHOM YOU HAVE HAD IN CHARGE FOR TWENTY YEARS." According to this testimony, which Jacob had successfully used against his predecessors, the prisoner r
fe since she ceased to be a child—fifty years of disillusionment and suffering. She thought first of her happy, peaceful childhood, her grandfather’s blind affe
truggling in the grasp of his powerful adversary, drew forth in his right hand a long dagger with a fine barbed blade. Gabriel smiled scornfully, snatched the w
ommander— "Faith! I think our wisest course is to consent." De Jars, however, before replying, wished to try if he could by any chance throw his enemy off his g
f Poitiers to Loudun, "not," as he said to those who came to pay their respects to him, "to examine into the genuineness of the possession, but to force those t
 finished seducer that he was, he appeared enchanted at them. Recollecting his character as a fantastical student and an out-at-elbows poet, he fell upon his kn
ith terrible anxiety, began to question it. This anxiety increased when she had counted more than fifteen beats. Then she stopped, cast down, her eyes mechanica
acter, displayed no anger: he merely responded, with a terrible smile, "It is well; I shall avenge her." Next day, Bothwellhaugh left his highlands, and came do
he boldest among them. Pere Lactance himself appeared melancholy and preoccupied, and that evening at supper refused to eat, repeating over and over again— "’It
on in stone, and completed the general effect of this gloomy abode, while, on the contrary, the eye wandering from it and passing from islands to islands, lost 
 "To all those to whom these presents shall come, greeting: "An abominable crime has cast a stain on Our city of Nimes. A seditious mob has dared to oppose the 
 they did not think we could be fugitives. A hundred yards beyond the village we came up with a crowd of peasants, who were, like us, on the way to Marseilles. 
dification, to get to the bottom of the affair. We can judge what importance the case was beginning to assume by its being already discussed at court. In spite 
hbourhood of Fotheringay, to be present at the execution. Beale took with him the London executioner, whom Elizabeth had had dressed in black velvet for this gr
humble; and if I had not known how easily his heart overflows, and how mine is impervious to every other arrow than those with which you have wounded it, I beli
was then brought back from Angers to Loudun. An extraordinary cell had been prepared for him in a house belonging to Mignon, and which had formerly been occupie
facades were hidden by hangings of silk and festoons of flowers; the churches were decorated as though for some grand ceremony. I was riding side by side with y
not find the man, whom he had only seen once, and whose name he did not know. Two whole days were spent in this fruitless search, but on the third, as he was wa
ral in the armies of the king, etc., etc., have given permission to M. d’Aygaliers, nobleman and Protestant of the town of Uzes, and to fifty men chosen by him,
d consent to evacuate Nimes. The general sent back word that the conditions were, that the troops should be allowed to march out fully armed and with all their 
ficient headway, to shoot at the nearest soldiers; when Francezet, proving worthy of his reputation, never missed a single shot. Then, resuming their flight and
all other respects so completely woman-like, a man in the hour of danger. She immediately went to the door to close it with the wooden bar that one passed betwe
sing the judges convinced of the actual guilt of the accused; for no one would have thought of subjecting a possibly innocent person to this suffering. However,
 he had not yet had time to put on, placed his back against a tree, drew his sword, and challenged the boldest, whether officer or private, to approach. His fea
free from astonishment and horror in the midst of such a spectacle. Grandier alone remained unchanged through it all, seemingly insensible to the monstrous exhi
ture by natural causes, which excluded any idea of magic or sorcery, he protested his penitence, implored the mercy of God, and prepared himself for execution a
he Camisard chiefs to accept the conditions offered them by M. de Villars. The towns of Alais, Anduze, Saint-Jean, Sauve, Saint-Hippolyte, and Lasalle, and the 
lk braiding, tight trousers, and high boots, paused upon a little eminence that stands upon the road between Kaiserthal and Mannheim, at about three-quarters of
ueen, falling on her knees and raising her arms to heaven with a gesture of gratitude: "Douglas has escaped, and my friends still keep watch." Then, after a fer
 assuming any kind of mask and in playing every sort of part, Derues did not find it difficult to overcome Monsieur de Lamotte’s prejudices, and in order to obt
 read it, either as a testimony to his sanctity or as a proof of his punishment:— "Here lies Pere Tranquille, of Saint-Remi; a humble Capuchin preacher. The dem
f death to offer the least violence. In the meanwhile, as the imprudent order given by Bothwell spread through the army, such murmurs burst forth that he clearl
 of fourteen, the son of a miller of Saint-Christol who had been broken the wheel just a month before. For a moment the judges hesitated to condemn so young a b
o which you assign it, and that King James V. also had formerly favourites, both male and female. It is true that they add that the ones as ill rewarded his fri
 and his teeth drawn. Naudaud and Magnan were sentenced to the galleys for ten years. Naudaud died there, but Magnan finished his time and then became a scaveng
rs and poets, nobles and peasants, trembled when they thought that the government was to fall into the hands of a foreigner and of a young girl, recalling those
y, in collecting all possible weapons of defence in the tower and in repairing its doors and stairs. These preparations were made so secretly that the army of t
erceive that the eyes of her young mistress were wont to rest with a kind of melancholy gentleness on Bertrand, a young man of handsome appearance but with a sa
ed with him whom kings regarded as an assassin, judges as a fanatic, and the youth of Germany as a hero. Charles Louis Sand was born on the 5th of October, 1795
hich were quartered at Calvisson had received orders on the evening of the 17th to march out next morning, so as to make room for the Camisards. On the 18th the
e up the citadel to him. The escort, however, had only retreated in order to seek help; they rushed tumultuously to the barracks, and finding the regiment of Gu
announced to the family that he was going to Picardy to see a former partner on a matter of business, and he departed accordingly, saying he should return befor
sprang into the garden, and, taking the queen’s arm on one side and Mary Seyton’s on the other, he hurried them away quickly to the lake-side. When passing thro
each Aix by unfrequented paths; having friends there, we should be able to procure a carriage and get to Nimes, where my family lived. But my wife did not agree
n the risk of a second marriage. So he reluctantly named a day for the ceremony, resolving to leave Paris with Madame Rapally as soon as he had settled with his
he enemy of all others most dreaded and detested by the Neapolitan barons. Then the Counts of San Severino, Mileto, Terlizzi and Balzo, Calanzaro and Sant’ Ange
 at least during the absence of my son, who is summoned to Edinburgh by the regent; this is of what I came to inform your grace, not with the empty ceremonial o
r the repose of the souls of the aforesaid Dame de Lamotte and her son. And, before being executed, the said Antoine-Francois Derues shall suffer the question o
 and her son departed instantly, not even waiting to reply, for they had got all they wanted; while Joan, trembling, ran desperately up to Bertrand, who had ang
ed in prison, and, according to the report of Michelon, commandant of Angers, and of Pierre Bacher, his confessor, he was, during the whole period, a model of p
Tour.’ The governor and all the other officials showed him great respect, and supplied him with everything he asked for that could be granted to a prisoner. He 
ean those happy days when we were both innocent—I called you my brother." "As you allow me, madam," said Robert, with an ironical smile, "I too shall always rem
ebert," answered Madame Rapally, her eyes shining with delight. "It was never my intention to lay you under embarrassing obligations, and I leave it all to you.
 been on my guard, I might have been disconcerted. Come, come, I must try to disperse these ideas and give him something else to think about." He stopped, and a
xing on the receding harbour her eyes, dried for a moment by terror, and beginning to moisten anew, "Adieu, France!" she murmured, "adieu, France!" and for five
rful family, which, when the descent in the male line from Robert Bruce had lapsed, disputed the royal title with the first Stuart, and which since then had con
orraine, without forgetting in this distribution any prince or princess among her relatives. She desired, besides, that each should keep the things then in his 
 a breviary, a Bible, and a St. Thomas for my consolation; and above all, do not grieve for me. I trust that, God will bring my innocence to light. Commend me t
Farges, Roquefort, Naudaud, and Magnan. Pointu was a perfect type of the men of the South, olive-skinned and eagle-eyed, with a hook nose, and teeth of ivory. A
hing go off thus in words when there is need to act for the country? And if no one would act, what would become of that mother of us all who is called Germany? 
 gave rise to had led to her dismissal from court. Not that she was a greater sinner than many who remained behind, only she was unlucky enough or stupid enough
 the course of the evening. It was an indication, a ray of light, perhaps the actual truth, detached from obscurity by chance gossip; and measures were instantl
s of a great lady. Thus when she was called to Castel Nuovo her joy was great, for she felt that her dreams now began to be realised. Philippa was installed at 
y, in public as in private, that I have never plotted, consented to, nor desired the queen’s death, nor any other thing against her person; but that, on the con
 believe that all those people have been cast in the same mould: this one always has a tear in his eye; he bows down before everyone, from the greatest to the s
ancais’, which was afterwards published anonymously as a pamphlet, that the publisher had seen, among other documents found in the Bastille, a card bearing the 
in the reality of the possession, and would certify to that effect. Barre accepted the challenge, but unluckily just at that moment the superior regained consci
 22nd April, 1790, the royalists—that is to say, the Catholics—assumed the white cockade, although it was no longer the national emblem, and on the 1st May some
 Bothwell at Dunbar, marched upon Edinburgh, where they had an understanding with a man of whom Bothwell thought himself sure. This man was James Balfour, gover
f her manner, and said I should not leave her without obtaining a deed in proof of our recent arrangements. She refused at first, saying it was unnecessary, as 
ung fisherman, and suddenly resuming his princely pride, said in a loud voice, "You shall not kill me without listening to me." Gabriel would have overwhelmed h
by fresh troops." Nevertheless, in spite of his desperate position, Cavalier listened to the propositions laid before him by Lacombe with cold and haughty front
alumniated and a prisoner." "You are right, George," the queen answered; "but for a woman the first step is everything: forgive me". Then, after a moment’s paus
 replied by sending M. le Comte de Montrevel to Nimes. He was the son of the Marechal de Montrevel, chevalier of the Order of the Holy Spirit, major-general, li
more, that the affliction of these poor sisters was so peculiar and had lasted so long, that charity impelled all those who had the right to work for their deli
ge, and as just then my brother-in-law came by, whose opinions were well known and whose uniform was respected, he was allowed to take them under his protection
ehind and pressed violently down on his left shoulder; at the same instant a pane was broken into splinters, and the head of a hatchet struck his right shoulder
as no longer any doubt; for this reserve charged the fugitives, amid whom it spread fresh confusion. The queen’s army was beaten. At the same time, three or fou
 at once taken a horse and started for Rieux. Her accusation was already on its way to the magistrates! At break of day the house where Martin Guerre lodged whe
keep up the splendour of their ancestors to the level of that of private individuals, and because there was in Scotland a certain musician, as I am informed, wh
 formed already of this great-hearted woman, as her son always calls her. "DEAR, INEXPRESSIBLY DEAR KARL,—How Sweet it was to me to see the writing of your belo
 by jealousy and wounded pride. He broke out into bitter reproach and violent recrimination, and, letting fall the mask, once for all lost his place in Joan’s h
 read and published to-day from the pulpits of all the churches, and copies affixed to the church doors and in other suitable public places. "Done at Loudun, Ju
 very encouraging." "What do you mean?" "Pray, do you imagine that I can go on while you glare at me with that angry frown puckering your forehead, as if you ha
med to the instinctive repugnance which his first appearance generally inspired, Derues had made a successful study of how to combat and efface this antagonisti
we ought to break the yoke of this infamous tyranny and get rid of the man before he had the means of hurting you, you always drew back in childish fear, with a
over!" murmured Marie of Durazzo, looking tearfully on her little daughters. "No, all is not yet over," said the admiral harshly, pushing her towards another ro
e, her anguish was both sincere and terrible. An angel soiled by crime, she lied like Satan himself, but like him too she suffered all the agony of remorse and 
 order that the present sentence may be executed according to its form and tenor. Pronounced judicially this 12th day of September 1560." This sentence substitu
lier; and as it was on the latter that the Protestants placed their sole reliance for the maintenance of those rights guaranteed for the future by the word of t
the boat, scarcely had it landed its two passengers on the opposite shore than it returned towards the castle. At that moment Mary Seyton announced to the queen
gathered, the superior, catching sight of the pyx which Barre had brought with him, fell once more into convulsions. Barre went towards her, and having asked th
 papers, on which Bertrande recognised her own handwriting. "Yes," he continued, "I have read and—re-read them.... See, you spoke then of your love and the sorr
s like to die. Then it was that the poetry of her soul found expression in these famous lines: "Farewell, delightful land of France, My motherland, The best bel
dinner, they brought him soup and stew, which he ate eagerly, and inquiring of the gaoler if he could have something more, an entree was brought in addition. On
ression of goodwill. Nothing has changed; suspicion passes over his head without alighting there. He is reassured, and resumes his work. Moreover, had he wished
f whom we have not yet spoken, because, being away from the castle when the queen arrived, we have not yet found an opportunity to present him to our readers. G
whether you leave? But let this agreement be a secret between us, and do not mention it to the so-called Moranges." "I have your oath, monsieur, that you will g
d that her heart was already agitated by passions beyond her years. Beside Joan stood her younger sister, Marie, who was twelve or thirteen years of age, the se
en, your wife every day, until the day she left me to go to Versailles. Yes, I also took Edouard to his mother, who was negotiating an appointment for him. I ha
 the real causes for my condemnation, and yet they will not allow me to say that it is for religion I die, for my religion kills theirs; and that is so true, th
ssassination of her husband. But as her conduct after the event and the indifference she had shown about pursuing the authors of the crime admitted of no valid 
 sent Gray, Robert Melville, and Keith to Queen Elizabeth. But although London was nearer Edinburgh than was Paris, the French envoys reached it before the Scot
ng that made me resist all temptation to leave myself without cash. Imagine! I received a visit to-day from a great lady who lives in this house—in the suite of
such a distance as that already between the castle and the boat, the ball ricochetted at twenty paces from the fugitives, while the report died away in echo aft
esires to put an end to the war which is going on between his subjects, and which can only result in the ruin of his kingdom. As he knows that this war has been
ou, the night is too far advanced: imagine my despair. It is to you I am writing, it is of myself that I converse with you, and I am obliged to make an end. "I 
e island by an irresistible power. The winds have been unchained to bring me back to it in spite of myself, and I will own to you, even though it should make me
ttorney a son-in-law of Trinquant’s, to whose office he had succeeded. Thus Grandier, against whom were all the ecclesiastical judges, began to feel as if he we
al of England, which will serve for each of you, and all those who are present, or will make by your order anything pertaining to the execution aforesaid full a
nts of the proscribed districts were convinced that the order to gather together in certain places was given that they might be conveniently massacred together,
ector had foretold, and the reputation for sanctity of the holy man, who by watching and praying had delivered the worthy Ursulines from their ghostly assailant
to-day. He knew where I kept this money, and has taken it." He threatened to go before a magistrate and denounce the thief, and was only appeased by being paid 
ky, and, fearless of the crowd, which was so great that the archers could not succeed even by blows of their weapons in clearing a way for the magistrates, bega
tunately, d’Aygaliers had not accomplished so much without having learned not to draw back when the road grew rough, so he also on his side went about confirmin
rlotte Boullenois very much to heart. The physician under whose care he had placed her, after examining her wounds, had not given much hope of her recovery. It 
 His Majesty, however, desiring to provide for the subsistence of the afore-mentioned inhabitants, orders them to conform to the following regulations. He enjoi
. He remained silent during the drive, but before re-entering his dungeon, he said— "I must have been mad when I sought to hide the death and burial of Madame d
for an instant, and then said, with a smile— "I understand, sir; they wish to know whether I am strong enough to mount a scaffold: I know nothing about it mysel
contrary, all the reports to his discredit were eagerly adopted. As yet, no crime could be traced, but the public presentiment divined an atrocious one. Have we
creatures had already passed a whole week with their legs caught and pressed by the cleft beams which formed these inexpressibly painful stocks. When the unfort
n the most timid. It was resolved to betray the confidence of the reverend fathers, even at the risk of disgrace and punishment next morning, supposing the esca
with him. This is now whispered the neighbourhood all round us, it will soon be said aloud, and we have been so completely his dupes, we have helped him so much
ir absurd tale, had cast themselves on their knees before the Virgin, in order to mislead the authorities. All the circumstances that poor Solomon cited in his 
les Sainte-Marguerite, and whom he had so long in charge, felt slightly unwell yesterday on coming back from mass. He died to-day at 10 p.m. without having a se
perience a celestial joy, now that, like the Hebrews when they sought the promised land, I see traced before me, through darkness and death, that road at the en
y. Experienced in bankruptcy, he undertook the management of failures, contriving to make dishonesty appear in the light of unfortunate virtue. When this demon 
 fathers of the forest of Senart, who had heard of him as a man wholly given to piety; then, giving himself up to usury, he undertook what is known as "business
I could break you as I broke your dagger just now; but I have pity on you. I see that you can do nothing with your hands, neither defend yourself nor work. Go, 
r de Lamotte had heard this second part of Derues’ recital with a more silent indignation, not that he admitted its probability, but he was confounded by this m
ors, whose brilliant equipages waited for them in the neighbouring streets. Often in the night great ladies crossed its threshold under assumed names and remain
d I am come to speak to Lady Mary Stuart." "To be an ambassador," answered Mary Seyton, "is not to be exempted from having oneself announced in visiting a woman
Pere Grillau, and he did not believe he had committed any mortal sin since then, he would not trouble them, upon which they cried out at him as a heretic and in
ge succeeded James II as King of England, Julien was one of his pages, and received as a reward for his fidelity in the famous campaign of 1688 the command of a
, instead of being in his turn summoned to Nimes, or Uzes, to confer with M. de Villars, Roland merely received an intimation from Cavalier that he desired to s
to find him, for he wished to help me to discover the truth without my being obliged to resort to sequestration, which is a difficult measure to take with regar
 offered up a prayer, and the prayer ended, the whole company deserted in a body, and, crossing Mont Belliard, entered Porentruy, and took the road to Lausanne.
ears of infancy and early adolescence; he was then nearly fourteen. With a sweet and rather effeminate expression, blue eyes and a pleasant smile, he was a stri
ut the evident distress of mind under which Pere Lactance laboured had so damped the spirits of the party that all their gaiety had disappeared. Suddenly, just 
ont, Mademoiselle de Fazili, cousin of the cardinal-duke, two ladies of the house of Barbenis de Nogaret, Madame de Lamothe, daughter of the Marquis Lamothe-Bar
 twenty-five members, which, to the exclusion of every other tribunal, would be empowered to examine into the offence, and to condemn the guilty persons, whosoe
," I replied. "From the little I have learned, Sand seems to me to be one of those ghosts that appear only the greater and the more poetic for being wrapped in 
e two and asked the cause of the quarrel. "The cause," said Ravanel, "is that the Cadets of the Cross, led by the ’Hermit,’ have just knocked out the brains of 
to God and to make an act of contrition for the offences committed against His divine majesty, and to pray that the number of their sins might not be an obstacl
pardon for his genius, augmented the hatred which the latter inspired. Urbain, who in his intercourse with his friends was cordial and agreeable, was sarcastic,
to God, who is the only just and true judge, and to the kings and princes, my allies and confederates." This protestation was once more registered, as she had r
it out again with her tongue, as if it made her sick; Barge caught it in his fingers and gave it to her again, at the same time forbidding the demon to make her
 on the wheel, burnt at the stake, or hanged like brigands. His sole answer was an inclination of the head as he turned and led the way to his little escort. M.
 name; but Grandier assured him it should never pass his lips, none knowing it but himself and God. Thereupon M. de Laubardemont ordered Pere Lactance to insert
rcumstances." At this terrible sarcasm Lady Lochleven took a step towards Mary Stuart, holding in her hand the knife which she had just been using to cut off a 
ately, she had not always acted with like circumspection; for at the death of Mary Tudor, known as Bloody. Mary, she had laid claim to the throne of Henry VIII,
ragged from their horses. As to Cavalier, who was somewhat behind, as soon as he saw people coming towards him with uplifted sabres and shouting Traitor! he put
boys.... "Splendid!" said Pierre; and using his acknowledged authority, he divided them into two sides—ten highwaymen, whom he was to command, and ten archers o
 and his eagle did not as yet take so high a flight that it could be seen hovering above Mount Geneve. On the 12th, the Duc d’Angouleme arrived: two proclamatio
s of terror and the death-groan which echoed one night through the vaults of a country house near Beauvais. Behold other victims whose cries are yet louder, beh
ole population hastened to meet him. He rode at the head of his cavalry, the infantry following, and the whole number—about six hundred men—sang psalms in a lou
 with a last effort, she seized her murderer by the arm, repeating, "Edouard!—oh!" and then fell heavily, dragging Derues down with her. His face was against he
t Ayres, one at the bridge of Montvert, one at Barre, and one at Pompidon, and appointing Captain Poul as their chief. This choice of such a man as chief showed
usion. Then she had an instant’s womanly fright: she had fled from Lochleven Castle in the Douglas livery, and without either the leisure or the opportunity for
arians had gone, the pope sent a legate to crown Joan and Louis of Tarentum, and the 25th of May, the day of Pentecost, was chosen for the ceremony. All contemp
ences committed against His divine majesty, and to pray that the number of their sins might not be an obstacle to the fulfilment of the plans which He in His pr
nd not as the effect of our own will; and that our present abdication may have a more complete and solemn effect, and that no one should put forward the claim o
 to the road that he follows. On the 18th of October he is back at Jena, where he resumes his studies with more application than ever. It is among such universi
they passed his door, knowing that the student who had killed Kotzebue lay within, they used to lift their chain, that he might not be disturbed by the noise. A
um, so we come to you.’ ’That’s right, my children,’ said he; ’come in and welcome. I have never meddled with political affairs, and no one can have anything ag
the shoulders, Solomon uttered a cry and rushed to his son’s assistance. "Help, Numa! help, Bonaroux! Death to the ruffians! They want to murder me." "You lie, 
Solomon’s temple. There still lies Robert, represented on his tomb in the dress of a king and in a monk’s frock, on the right of the monument to his son Charles
d down the river Rhone, while six hundred of the skilful mountain marksmen called ’miquelets’ from Roussillon came down into Languedoc. M. de Montrevel was the 
o ask if Saint-Mars, following the example of the minister, would have said of a prince "Until he is installed in the prison which is being prepared for him her
who had borne with such firmness Lindsay’s insults, grew so perceptibly paler, that Melville, who did not take his eyes off her,—put out his hand towards the ar
posals, saying that he was the avenger of abuses and not an assassin, and that those who had to complain of the admiral had only to come and ask him how he had 
known malady, and that, dreading lest he should be accused of having murdered her, he had decided to conceal the death and bury her here. The mason listened, al
 resemblance; he paid no attention to me at first, and I was able to examine him at leisure. His manners were those of a man belonging to the highest classes of
 she has told me that they often threatened her with death should she ever mention it: we were also forbidden to speak, even to each other, of the child whose b
cell apart, and could be, heard cursing and complaining all night through. Ravanel, Villas, and Jonquet were confined together, and passed the night singing and
ingay. Mary Stuart set out on her journey, then, with her little following. Arrived at the shore of Solway Firth, she found there the Warden of the English Marc
ess that he seemed to see nothing else in the room. As soon as Joan and Andre, the Princes of Tarentum and Durazzo, the Counts of Artois, and Queen Sancha had t
everages and drinks administered by him after the aforesaid medicine (he having taken the precaution to send his servant into the country for two or three days)
s, named Grimaud, who had stationed himself as sentinel on the roof of the chateau. Led by Malarte, Lacoste-Badie and his dragoons took a narrow covered way, wh
m to take the baron’s frankness in bad part; only he remarked, when dismissing him, that he hoped he would find out some way of ridding the kingdom of those who
erson or persons whatever, under pain of being treated as disturbers of the public peace. At this warning Barre, saying that he did not acknowledge the bailiff’
his ground. So Grandier remained, and his brother, who slept beside him, declared that his sleep that night was as quiet as usual. The next morning he rose, as 
d excellent wines. These latter suited him so well that he never left the table without being in a pleasant humour, and at such a moment if it came into his hea
everal companies of fusiliers. From another direction M. le Comte de Peyre brought thirty-two cavalry and three hundred and fifty infantry, having enlisted them
For several days she hovered between life and death, and Martin Guerre bestowed the most tender care upon her. She was greatly moved thereby, having one of thos
nt of soldiers to arrest the culprits: the task was easy, for they were all once more inside the barrier and in their beds. They were seized, brought to St. And
had had his grave hollowed out in the church of St. Germain, choosing that church for his last long sleep because it had been built by Pope Urban IV when he was
 sufficiently cleared of the murder of the king, of which I have been falsely accused, yet, the better to prove my innocence, I am, ready to engage in combat wi
e that it was no longer an insurrection they had on hand but a war, and Mende being the capital of Gevaudan and liable to be attacked at any moment, they set th
d in every direction. The whole island was up in arms, and the fisher-folk would have suffered themselves to be cut up to the last man before allowing a single 
procure a carriage and get to Nimes, where my family lived. But my wife did not agree with me. ’I must go back to town for our things,’ said she; ’we have no cl
red to be null and void. "The Court declares the judgment pronounced by the magistrates of the Chatelet against the above named Derues to be good and right, and
, and perhaps mine. Go; we shall see each other again in heaven above, where our mother is waiting for us—our mother whom you have not known, and to whom I shal
last December had been hired from the widow Masson by a person named Ducoudray, and went down to it with Monsieur de Lamotte and one of his subordinates. The ca
ient number of troops, he determined to attack the rebels. He had received intelligence that the band led by Laporte was just about to pass through the valley o
r former opinion. The bigots and devotees, all who made a profession of kneeling in the churches, of publicly crossing themselves and dipping their fingers in t
I am a princess and free, and I do not owe to any prince more than he owes to me; and on everything of which I am accused towards my said sister, I cannot, repl
 as witnesses of his good faith and his innocence. He showed the book he was reading while the mason excavated: it was the Seven Penitential Psalms. "How unfort
as carried away by the bold and uncommon character of the girl, who, not content with a prosaic intrigue, had trampled underfoot all social prejudices and propr
ass abreast. There was a terrible collision there, and the conflict began among friends who should have been united against the enemy. Finally, the two troops, 
ming at his feet, and Isolda interrupted him to say he had a grain of dust in his eye. Then Andre was full of his plans for the future, and Isolda stroked his f
time, and then, as it was getting late, the party separated. Next morning early, a large and noisy crowd was assembled in the rue Saint-Victor before Derues’ sh
 confess to you." "Speak quickly, child; I am dying with impatience." "Perhaps I have done wrong; but I want you to promise beforehand not to scold me." "You kn
at Grandier had entrusted his pact with the devil, under the symbol of a bunch of roses, to a certain Jean Pivart, to give to a girl who had introduced it into 
res those celestial good things which death holds in charge. "Who then will strike this miserable hireling, this venal traitor? "I have long been waiting in fea
e concerning a matter equally interesting to us both, and he is not to be alarmed at our arriving in the guise of an enemy, for this we have done designedly, as
 wait longer." "Permit me to hope," replied Lady Lochleven, "that she will change her decision; in any case, see me perform my office." At these words, a servan
ly, overcome by a terrible grief; I have no strength to turn to business now. Leave me, I beg: I feel my strength gives way." "What, my daughter," cried the Cat
val to Rome, squares, churches, cardinals’ palaces, of unparalleled splendour. All the business of nations and kings was transacted at the castle of Avignon. Am
cted by blood with him, the relationship is not so near. The town of Avignon, although nominally belonging to the sovereign pontiff, is the capital of Provence,
en taken." "My lord," answered the queen, "what you say may befit you, but not me, who well know that this book is the true and faithful version of the word of 
oire Abregee de l’Europe’ by Jacques Bernard, published by Claude Jordan, Leyden, 1685-87, in detached sheets. This letter stated (August 1687, article ’Mantoue
aited in silence for his servant’s arrival; but the hours passed away, and the servant did not come. At one o’clock in the morning, Bothwell, after having talke
grateful for the care you have taken of his little property." "No doubt, no doubt," said the uncle, trying hard to smile. "I will give you a good account of it,
sure on the Montpellier road. It almost seemed as if the Catholics were beginning to recognise the futility of their plot; for although they had appealed to fan
command of this magnificent assembly, mounted on a superb horse, arrayed in gilded armour; and accompanied by the queen, who, in a riding habit, with pistols at
 in your error, for want of having heard anyone who could make known the truth to you; this is why, as your Grace has but a few hours longer to remain in this w
