 victory, and with double courage after 
this indication, perceived Cha■elard. A 
moments later the priest and the doctor 
e and M. de Baville, which were promptly
owd about us. To-morrow I shall speak di
, the playthings of an awful destiny! Tw
s the companion of infancy, the deposita
on it: we were also ■orbidden to speak, 
o take command of the city in the name o
aking signs of apology for the interrupt
ger thrusts, of which twenty-four would 
 example; but Roland would listen to n■t
e of a remedy. He must purge himself at 
lied to me that it had not been possible
lace during the night. This expedition c
hat age, and with which she especially w
 a certificate of Urbain’s protest, whic
rnor rarely sat in his presence." Voltai
with a woman who had steadfastly refused
ght of a power of attorney gi■en by her 
our years this cottage became a shrine f
he front, was wounded in his foot by an 
for a moment desert him, had risen, brui
dispute on the question of money might a
 of His Grace, yet it was too probable t
Quennebert was a very serious one, threa
to make one shudder! No doubt he can’t■p
ike him down, this very evening, not the
matter out■ Well, my success has cost me
 approached the wheel to break in Boeton
less." "It was then," says Brantorne, "t
Aygaliers. Cavalier, who from the day he
e stood higher than ever in the opinion 
ief to do, no further treachery on earth
such question■ correctly, he, and those 
M. de Saint-Cyr and the other French lor
ses for the queen to take to withdraw in
rt." The two young men laughed heartily 
e in case of the death of the young king
, for months past, I have been following
fter which all present spri■kled holy wa
ys were ove■, Martin began to look into 
acks. I shall make no protestations, but
al kingdom, that I may always belong to 
thou■ht my daughter was dead; I thought 
ov■r a little of your cheerfulness." "Al
upon the shoulder of Mr. G——-, his ■ompa
 you." "Come to-m■rrow." "I leave Paris 
, they did not stop at Braunberger; and 
unknown, who, when she returned to■the w
to draw the Camisards into a trap in whi
rime committed in the South, and it led 
his own brother Robert, and one day h■ d
ake p■ty on you and on our children." It
we are not children by the same mother, 
" Robert replied, never lifting his e■es
dently; "one word■from you, light of my 
ann■unced to her every evening that a fr
s of the■town bent their steps towards t
d result; for M. de Julien received orde
ad believed him lost, welcomed him with 
l your best friend; never leave him for 
ed characters who always act ■p to their
happen to France interposed. The king ha
man of the lowest class,■to some poor fe
perience in eccl■siastical lawsuits, he 
s return from Versailles, he ventured to
ance from the second possession he along
ht—to be honest; and I can say that I ne
im, put off his visit to the convent unt
ll the guests,■among whom was Trumeau, w
kind. From b■eak of day masters and vale
r, in a few moments, and told Grandier, 
in order■to get it down, Barge three tim
r works, since the means of hearing ■hem
is procedure, on the ground that the ■on
 de Lamotte?" "The man who made away wit
es shuddered all over; he exhausted hims
made, or the contract annulled. A new co
er me." "You lie, Prince of Brancaleone!
 remedy, it becomes necessary to prevent
y, and the man of pleasure must be arous
ion; this gentleman was with him on the 
t that game compared with the cheva■ier!
on Nisida, whose birth ha■ caused her mo
ts occur so frequently in the same man, 
y which at first had issued from full he
 hostage by Louis XIV. By an odd coincid
heir muskets and the flat of their sword
d is talking: Andre was eagerly telling 
prove that their confidence is well foun
take him two or three leagues beyond the
 the court of Naples, but to the end he 
dible voice. Under these conditions they
ave." And here he■cast upon the notary a
llowed by the forty men who had remained
ena, only Ravanel remained, but he refus
if the commander’s jealousy should make 
ur heart so much as a feeling■of pity ma
occasion, they were introduced with■all 
ig came to justify Sand’s presentiments;
found he could not mount without assista
ask of you now ■s a much simpler, easier
at no news had arrived from Dissay, and 
he following afternoon. This arrangement
 round towers, which flanked the corners
r Huguenots, went from house to house th
l of Gevaudan and liable to be attacked 
on■emned to be broken on the wheel, and 
ak and grasping the hilts of a pair of p
our sword; I have never seen one of the 
e all the other occupan■s of the monaste
 the mo■ might be increased by the dread
no further annoyance to the marshal, exc
 shook under his spurred heels; he stuck
 star would shine on the horizon. Their 
ly mourned for—this man was a cheat, an 
house asked the young duke solemnly what
t he was lost—all the more because his p
 some time, it occu■red to the notary th
have anticipated, arrived there on Sept■
estitute of charm■ and at an epoch when 
 is the angelus ringing." Everybody knel
rom thirty-five to thirty-six years of a
 the world, and would like to discover t
 this point■ "5. That the province of La
e scaffold was erected on the Esplanade:
rating as th■ legitimate wife; had also 
es de Perse’. What renders the story of 
essing and successive protests of Charle
 Martin Guerre must have suffered in thi
ence that it is■permissible for a man, i
isily, and the two enemies were in the s
erate lords, and from their hands passed
 to persuade herself that hers alone was
happiness is-often-to allo■ him to follo
, should have understood better than any
 queen, for he was thinking that he was 
a letter with his own hand, asking him f
 Julien had taken refuge in Aussilargues
l those who could cross my love. God hav
provided everyone remained quietly at ho
urprised at Corneto by Conrad Lupo, the 
secret manoeuvr■s in order to gain his e
acks of corn, had been taken at Toiras. 
th were handsome, and they left Edinburg
yrano Derues de Bury. And now we will co
 a nature for the■prefect to ignore, as 
 commission for the Benedictine-Camaldui
asm than the cry deserves, it was then: 
rning the news of his death, Elizabeth w
treat pardon from God, the king, and her
t, for I shall only have to reckon with 
for me in my boat, where you will find N
adrille was resumed and fin■shed. The ne
another issue from your clemency and the
ven yourself the trouble to come here pu
■the body exhumed. Extraordinary and imp
of absence to those Camisards who had bu
i?" (Who brought the water of ■he pact?)
 return." With these words he went out, 
 and uttering no complaints. Boeton, who
ening, a man bearing something resemblin
at the said statutes and laws were witho
was discovered. The Genevois meantime go
eir first volley. As he had expected, th
 away the straw with his hands; "I have 
lated that until his return the rooms sh
old, and to women with child who may be 
tes beforehand, whatever it might be, to
ains; at last they became so familiar th
r, who knelt to the assassins in vain; e
ll go where I wish to take him, provided
ignon of Urbain’s ■etition, retired as r
roops, advancing to the sound of a psalm
omas Warden should happen to be at an is
s mutual liking that one day, when the c
t once on Aquila, which town■already was
upstairs. They represented to Derues tha
 yield. That lady was your mother; and d
he table,—"yes, an answer, clear, precis
tants of Sagias had agreed in mistaking 
 19th■ 1566, three months after the assa
st: his eyes glittered with a feverish l
ignon, and their partis■ns, whether amon
 than I am." This submission disarmed hi
d his way into the room where the barbar
regaud■s, and as Charlotte’s death prece
tears of blood ran down the cheeks of th
 of the night■ performed the service of 
of Naples shown so brave an aspect: ever
ore has induced her to lend an ear to ma
e, being met at the door by twelve to fi
for the goodwill, an■ to lodge her rent 
g she had ever dreamed of, queen as she 
g ■ore. On the 18th of June, at eight o’
 inferior assassins had been punished, s
tasted the various dishes of the courses
t so long as h■r enemy lived her existen
 Court of justice, dated ■0th December 1
as always unoccupied at night, being use
l to deprive their mistress of their ser
named Derues to be good and right, and h
n has never varied in any respect: I did
erstood: an unfortunate being had just l
mily; confess, my lord, that I am with c
a copy of these directions to the bailif
s so small that the fingers which held i
t of all this commotion arrived at lengt
ced involuntarily in this direction when
ith it. But his business had thereby suf
le wind, set sail the same day. Ea■ly in
t Saint-Paul’s,’ and that ’the coffin wa
ndre being chased down the rue des Soeur
f all, he actually wrote a long letter t
all explain in the course of our intervi
he foetid odour which proceeded from it 
e her her lady-in-waiting. The poor peop
he portraits of the ’roi des halles’ whi
 and forced to feel their way in darknes
indly, which he little expected. He had 
hen came a day when she ceased her quest
 tell you to be quiet, unless you want m
by the queen’s orders had been attending
son’s ingratitude, and like every other 
r lifetime given our good little cousin 
e of Menteith, where a priory, the only 
n by the table and ■rote a few hasty lin
ere it not for the sanctity of the place
 on a table and his eyes bandaged. But t
 ■ermission, I should like to stay two o
t cough, the sign agreed upon. The man p
ollute the air s■e breathed. Otho with h
ne his work badly. He assured his master
 at hand,—of that country which, in my f
rom which nothing could rouse him except
uffi■ed for most people; for him they we
thy sad lament, Whose burden shall rehea
lat■r on. He set forth alone, therefore,
en several shots were fired by the milit
dow he drew nearer, Little Douglas, who 
der had great influence with worldly fol
nterference led to a fight. Shouts were 
 he was wielded the moving passion of th
 appears." "That’s true; upon my soul, t
iting, with the money. At that moment, s
earer, voices were more distinctly heard
rs’, carrying off, it should be noted, t
ake Moranges wi■h me to-night. He is you
las livery, and without either th■ leisu
ood, and which is compelled to appeal ag
n given, and Mr. Widemann had used the w
y-five officers and six hundred s■ldiers
elations which reigned in appearance bet
simply have been an act of cowardice on 
"REILH." As soon as he was dead everythi
r good sense approves our fancy’s flight
e is no need for you to read this docume
hich Roquefort suffered seemed to have i
 "Having now a village behind me which I
ople are still asking who the Man in the
 All that was my delight Is hidden from 
t change his simple living of Loudun for
 the w■dow’s lodgings, Maitre Quennebert
d never learn■d Latin she would reply in
 as ever to have revenge, and as he was 
at evils and calamities that the war occ
hereupon the Protestants resumed their p
nother sep■ration, and sent her to Paris
 kingdom, being sen■, accompanied by an 
ht of the hope of which she had just let
d no other words to assuage his rage or 
treasure, accidentally discovered, may n
s been with me, L■rd, even when I was no
was no longer granted but under the surv
ty: spurious possession, far from bringi
’s eldest brother, Malpach, Roland’s sec
andier’s arms. At first tears choked Per
mother during the troubles in France, an
 bless me by the outpouring of your most
ting the work of destruction going on in
 beg you to put out of your mind the dis
ral times, could hear the sound of instr
r to breathe one of those deep sighs tha
n gate on the horse he had got ready: th
 wooden leg; his countenance was stern. 
 boat was waiting; and, on seeing the fu
he remorse which will be perhaps its sad
ly; they have therefore in■tructed us to
nd of the claim he can put forward, but 
a word reached her from the man she love
ich is one of the noblest in the world, 
d forced him to take flight.’ "Now put i
less you arrang■ otherwise at least. He 
wed her to see this once only. Mary Stua
 be consummated." "O just God!" cried th
ed his banner, which till then had remai
t remembrance, so much so that the queen
ook flight; Solomon and h■s son went up 
rom the commandants or■intendants of the
had entered; so that he seemed to be rat
forced, to become standard-bearer, as be
e magistrate to have the corpse removed,
lay sister called Jeanne Dumagnoux, had 
pect much of those you will render me in
bility, on which a careful education had
rtive glance on everyone he meets, se■ki
s in the neighbourhood, tried to escape 
holy sacrifice of Thy Son. Grant that I 
ducer that he was, he appeared enchanted
the enemy to faci■itate my brother’s esc
 long in charge, felt slightl■ unwell ye
e suffered too much in this position, sh
oranges was expressing by passionate sig
ten near imprisonment for d■bt, and that
creating disasters, instantly suggested 
showin■ them its practicability, so that
became general: every man trusted to cha
ed the news with pleasure; he conversed 
en informed of the secretary’s influence
t remained none the less firmly clasped 
 it was lost at a bend of the river ■had
 somewhat in the opinion of those presen
 opened his window, and found the whole 
r which had been basely attacked■ He ope
death-agony that no one would have recog
ves of■the king and queen were threatene
uitable tree for his own execution. "But
 harvest. The all-powerful and merciful 
letter of his bond, as in the case of Me
 ancient privileges■ and the people were
favour: he sent Gray, Robert Melville, a
e believe me innocent; some halt between
r, and when, half an hour having elapsed
test against this step, insisting tha■ t
e bailiff, the king’s attorney, the civi
as in great favour at Clement VI’s court
er go, saying— "Madam, your M■jesty know
tion, and we glory in the thought of bei
ulfil their office, Urbain recognised ■n
nation! "About eleven at night I finishe
of a street, and though Sand’s informant
 asceticism of an anchorite and the self
 and promised to produce such useful res
to the scaffold, not thus to avenge any 
motte’s power of attorney. I thought ove
m. How confidently he brought out his no
sards, and just as he passed the Little 
 accused of adultery; but while he repel
igh estate, like me, Of whom both heart 
ving reached the farther side of the dra
of you■ senses," said the prince, taking
dame!" he ■xclaimed, "do you think I cou
ded upon herself to alter ■ll this by be
 doubtless been given because they wante
er, "do you really think that Angelique 
 bath, as the ancients were accustomed t
lan, than, anxious to carry it out, we s
y which some men possess by nature, plac
o their progress apparent, the carriage 
itterness of feeling on the young prince
at is to say, from dying. F■rthermore, h
Karl and his family ceased, and he only 
ldren, they finished the wounded man, an
 escape, and got off easily; for the sig
on be done on her person, in the presenc
y first feeling, I confess, was■one of j
e rue de la Mortelle■ie. Not that a secr
my inmost judge, who has shown me in the
dent of the Consistory to open both plac
have been taken as a description of Monm
cclamations, whether viva voce or by wri
perior was in the habit of interpreting 
ide! Let your soul ascend to heaven pure
hrough the intervention of the heavenly 
ingly, the guidance of the troops who we
r repeat some prayers, and then sounded 
 and of men-kind■ Dominique Bourgoin her
self the ri■htful heir, as being nearest
tinctively or from distaste, the queen d
orest, like an old tiger whose talons ha
h weight with us when considering a dark
tly, until the discovery of the ■ody of 
ound did not bleed. Sin■e his son’s arre
hen, upon thes■ gentlemen offering to ac
agitation. Scarcely had he gone than Mar
 always afraid of accidents, and they so
meau. "It is so possible that you will s
rly ten o’clock the cards had not yet be
ry as if he■had not the least suspicion 
LES, I have received your letter of the 
’s widow. The curses were for Bothwell: 
g thro■gh that town in a few days, being
 charming Madame Rap■lly. As for her, sh
hose sixty men from his infantry, and ei
ssed them over to his lieute■ant, Ravane
 shot dead on the spot. "That was like k
g her hands as if praying for mercy, s■e
say himself, was s■lent at her appearanc
efore him by Lacombe with cold and haugh
ds and pressing round anyone who started
m, taking along with him a great ■arty o
o’clock A. M. the same envoy returned, a
 by braver cutthroats than he. Behind hi
rd.’" "You are right," said the ab■e, wi
magistrate entered the church at the mom
ed my wife’s hand when she signed this d
lebrated doctor, called James Abrenets, 
m, and so long as you see a light shine 
oduced several pieces of dirty, crumpled
 this will be a certain proof of His pro
en labour costs next to nothing?" "Here 
 Mary Stuart, whose strang■ favour for h
u■ishing me, God is punishing me!’ "On t
te was Lagrange-Chancel. He was just twe
 thrown it far fr■m him. At this insult 
rations of the crowd:—I am an■usurper!" 
 of the Edict of Nantes, can be easily i
ing Grandier, he said that he having bee
 of Hungary, and later on they would pay
ttle of musketry behind them, they wheel
 dagger that he had hidden in his breast
your u■cle, wretched boy!" exclaimed the
 head, unhappy man, and adore the crucif
The account of what then happened is tak
 of her room at last, towards eight o’cl
fy you?" "But suppose they got hold of i
ould make, he did not reach London till 
e had been read to the accused. Hencefor
er, which we shall see later on. We have
rince you are protecting with love and v
you have filled at your leisure with the
 France; then she gave to each man in he
ht back her irritability. Perhaps, howev
ing as the king moved and stopped, and a
eat ladies crossed its threshold under a
agerly; "you will injure yourself withou
he seemed to be as respectful and timid 
ollowing passage:— "Without dwelling on 
er companion could not tear her from the
ng those about the queen was to shut her
of indignation, but Elizabeth had too gr
uch amused. N. and T. began upon me with
ty, came her dearest ladies and most che
cession. A bunch fell at the feet of the
sappeared. I have a hundred thousand liv
 you would not listen, and in your anger
 intendant of Languedoc, and ■. de Brogl
icked up half naked by a French vessel, 
me, I beseech Thee, and receive the vow 
in a field, w■ence he had watched the co
a long time as brother and sister, and B
ehind. But even if a woman of whom I kne
spite of myself, this terrible dream hau
, had written him from England. He showe
le Trumeau was hugging the knowledge of 
 and told him that as Marechal Villars h
nd darkness is favourable to illusions. 
 accept them." "But how would it be," sa
 will you pay me?" demanded the creditor
d strange. But without delaying over que
sixty years of age (’Questions sur d’Enc
d silence seemed a bad augury for her pl
submitted to Bothwell■ either through fe
ars. His first care was to learn from M.
a■dispensation to wed a Catholic prince,
d as though for some grand ceremony. I w
which demand Qu■nnebert had opposed. Whi
on, his lo■ks of love, the warmth of his
e. "Yes, madame, two days ago; and I hav
 the 15th," resumed widow Masson. "On th
Sagias had agreed in mistaking him for t
st me. No one will think of looking for 
lled for. The Abbe de Belmont, a canon, 
 rest of the troops bore down on the mai
amotte, to a lawyer, on the eighth day o
theless." "Explain yourself." "I only re
hem as those of their own sex. At last, 
ch the second spell had been made to wor
ts place and gradually to draw nearer, f
until he came up with him. Then■she went
no reply to this argument, it being a co
y more exorcisms being performed in the 
e proof, madam?" returned Ruthven. "Ther
d, laying his hand on his shoulder, told
his soul." At the very same moment all t
years of age, who had been handsom■ enou
tal o■t of his resentment. Be that as it
as not, however, so silent towards Grand
ollow me into England in full liberty of
 on Eazas and Cerberus that not all the 
these men were, while the rest of the tr
the notary’s affairs, forced him at last
 hopes to her hopes for the future, what
her involuntary sin. But ■ho can underst
d, Mary Stuart appeared on the threshold
’We are not safe here,’ I said; ’we must
t or■ers, who had till then, in what con
who was waiting on the other side of the
hether this■fact had been miraculously r
