joined the garden. Her attention was divided between the play of her son and the
 ridiculous light upon the e■il spirits, resolved to awake once more a salutary 
he sword her defenders had drawn for her." Then, turning round to Douglas "Georg
r all, I am obliged to give you up’ the pleasure of knowing you esteem me woul■ 
usband’s horse in the thickest of the battle. The victory was long uncertain: at
orpse?" And when the queen made no answer, they went down again slowly to the ga
e Queen■of Scotland. The envoys responded that they were authorised to make pled
uting him, and thus the two factions which had been so long quiescent found them
the review of the Allies it is all up with you, and your head■will be stuck on t
repulse. I set out to-morrow. Quit Paris, leave the world which has slandered yo
 de La Rouviere, de Musse, and de Solier, will be burnt to the ground. God, by H
r decision." The answer to this letter did not have to be waited for: it was suc
gloomy execution in a dream. But all was real and when light penetrated this dis
e the king!" The firm ■ttitude assumed by General Lagarde restored Nimes to a st
al between t■e recognition of the possession as a fact and the recognition of hi
to go out of his way. Consequently, as the street into which the Archbishop of S
ge." This is all that was said and done that day in the proceedings, till the ne
ning the doors of the hall, departed as though nothing had happened. Isolda, whe
 word of hope, he did not expressly declare that the case ■as hopeless. Two days
o closely did they press on him that two of his men were obliged to ride before 
not profoundly convinced of this truth, I should not communicate my resolution t
ck was to acknowledge one’s guilt; besides, as far as he was concerned, it was p
 rising from her bed and cloaking herself, she went and seated herself at a litt
e," Mary answered; "I had intended to, but I forgot". Then, giving it to Annibal
ns in ruby streams; conversation, excited and discursive, was heard on every sid
down, whispering gloomily— "Unhappy duke,■why did you refuse to believe me? Fly,
 if we search well we shall find among the signatures the names of Lindsay of By
two sheets of paper whereon were written in another hand than his, some love-poe
by which one could have judged him equally with Lord Lindsay, was a perfect cont
 communicated to him the commission of th■ cardinal and the order of the king, a
ontent, and, turning their anger against themselves, would have done penance for
n?" "The gentleman is the governor of the prison in which Sand was confined." "I
breakfast. Directly he had gone the queen ran to the window: the few clouds whic
fluenc■d by other motives than friendship in joining the conspiracy. The fact wa
an; for his tyranny had indeed become more unendurable to her than her husband’s
is odious to me. Melville’s, on the contrary, is, in my present circumstances, o
ed. "’The assassins!’ "My first feeling, I confess, was one of joy. I pounced up
o muttered that devils were not wont to assume such a form, and who persisted in
 sure you never mention such a thing again. The king would rather see his kingdo
ds a safe harbour there, I shall cast anchor there for ever: otherwise the bark 
there for six hours at a stretch, sometimes the entire day. At length, on Monday
icles of furniture-in fact, to every thing and place in the house; but nothing w
 worse disturbances, reserving, as supreme head of the Church and lord of the ki
ith you. When I first asked him, he refused altogether, and only yielded to my e
friend? Pray be seated, chevalier." He approached Mademoiselle de Guerchi, and, 
ng erected in the■meadow that extends on the left of the road to Heidelberg. It 
e circumstances under which I made Monsieur Derues’ acquaintance. I hope you do 
ts were passing in Scotland, Mary Stuart was st■ll a prisoner, in spite of the p
rdered to put them on, which he did readily, affecting much amusem■nt. As he was
ng something. You, Miss Mary, give me that casket, and put on your head this bas
the scarcely dried blood, made another compact, in which he engaged to deliver u
, "a man who has money either pays his debts, or is a cheat. Now Heaven preserve
iged to leave the letter with Walsingham, her first Secretary of State, who prom
rthermore, she demurred to the order for her removal, having vowed to live alway
day’s joy was impaired by an accident■which to a superstitious people seemed of 
is request, he should regard him as an enemy to peace, and responsible for all t
them, not all, advised her, and even urged her to it, and deeply repented their 
h she begged them to put down to her imprisonment. Then, having given them a lon
withdrawal, leave with us some hope that you forgive the apparent violence to wh
as your old lover! Well, I at least am excusable, I the wife, who only thought s
he risk of his life he would never spare his master good advice; and that, on th
 said ■he princess, extending her hand with a solemn gesture: "as God sends no o
, painful, and cruel, has always been sufficiently mastered by my will■to let me
 the greatest respect. As Giafer survived ■ha-Abas and Sephi-Mirza by many years
 gate, and seeing the marechal’s guard drawn up in line, he caused his own to fo
 day on Barre and on one nun chosen to represent the community. Barre did not pa
ake, Thomas Warden watches at the postern, and God has sent us a dark night." Th
 of■persuasion. A sum of 100 Louis had already been set on Roland’s head: this s
ning like a king, on his throne of rock, and blessing his two children, the most
, and of Dorothea Jane Wilheltmina Schapf, his wife. Besides two elder brothers,
 and had the wounded carried there, that their wounds might receive attention. U
s quite possible that Monsieur de Lamotte do■s not know. I am aware that his wif
iers and unwilling to share with anyone the glory of a victory of which he felt 
y; I left him to go to supper; he begged m■ to return: I went back. Then he told
ides, as we have said, feared some attack on his life at every moment, had made 
wretc■ to recall him to you." "My lord," cried Mary, interrupting Lindsay, "do y
of everything except remorse. His gloomy, self absorbed silenc■ seemed a bad aug
y said that I felt no pain, being a sorcerer died unrepentant; That the prayers 
sible execration on his brother’s head, he turned and galloped away from the acc
 and when she left him she felt her heart was breaking. At last she made up her 
ned his upper lip: His slightly effeminate style of beauty, the graceful curves 
orses at Avignon, and not at Pointet. One of the marshal’s aides-de-camp tried, 
This anxiety, caused by the pressure of public business, was most probably only 
 of Nantes, because of their religion, be set at liberty within six weeks from t
n his blase heart. Nothing would induce him to follow Jeannin■s advice to leave 
. A new deputation was at once sent off, which fi■ding the church empty, went on
 bedroom, so that no light should betray them, and Mary Seyton, approaching the 
ivres. M. de Julien accepted, and feeling that his religious belief would be in 
cle and nephew, one aged forty-five and the other ten, seized on them both, and 
re had come over from Chinon the day before, and had resumed his exorcisms at th
eeper of the instruments to bring the wedges, which he complained of as being to
refore announced that on the 20th of May three of the seven devils dwelling in t
tin verse and gallant le■ters, said, in speaking of them, "They were never caugh
be that which we took that day. Along the four leagues which lie between Beaucai
ragoons for a good hour, from time to time a wounded dragoon falling from his ho
arrow, do not mention it. "Further," wrote Sainte-Foix, "an English surgeon call
y another from inside the house. The same evening, while the body of the malefac
dictated, by a gesture full of dignity, that she wished to be alone and in peace
e there." "And I told you the truth, monsieur." "No one has seen them, no one kn
f money, had detained him hitherto. He had travelled on foot, almost a beggar. H
ound to contain the order of the day.■Instantly the colonel ordered the ’gineyal
you are makin■ me share your disquietude." "Yes, I am exceedingly anxious; I ent
pure before God, and I shall always try■to walk in the path that rises above the
s pulse anxiously and exchanging looks of intelligence. At the foot■of the bed s
 Elizabeth would on no account consent. This little discussion ended, she showed
ly what you think about this plan. If, like me, you feel any scruples, you must 
 by the care she lavished on h■m and the expense she went to, that although unac
gged them to go at once to the place de l’Eveche, escorted by the first company,
ur tears break my heart. Ah, my God! how cruel it is to distress you so! I shoul
to open both places of worship the next morning. Upon this, the president carryi
him to be let in: the workman reminded him that he had been one of the little ar
s better to wait for the arrival of the bishop or of fresh orders from him, put 
awake or asleep! Why, it’s a—-" "Be silent, on your life! I shall explain everyt
 lips, said in a tone of triumph— "I am listening, commander." "Well, if it must
b had been broken in two places. Then the executioner unbound the formless but s
enough for that yet." This happened in 1809; Sand was fourteen years old. Peace,
quence, her tears, her pleading gla■ces. On hearing her prayer for a reprieve of
 to take great, care of his son. "If what you say is true," she continued, "Mada
, whom you wished to dishonour, was vowed to the Madonna? Because your father, l
laced on a small table between them could contemplate at leisure the ravages wro
 of it in existence but its walls. A little later it was clearly proved that the
 in the house of Sand’s parents, was galloping home with four horses when he cam
red in return only aversion and■respect, all her love being given to me. As ever
ident pains taken by the prosecution to strain the evidence against the defendan
tantalising though it was, yet he dared not put out his hand to seize it. His cr
y were sent: the queen then decided to grant it, and all passed, as with M. de B
of humanity is to assume the upper hand in our co■ntry, if in this faithless epo
 his horse having received a bullet through its neck. Still they followed the fl
made, hastened to ask her— "Quis est iste quem adoras?" (Who is it whom thou dos
he still more to her. The prince was instructed in my house in Burgundy, with al
ow much time Scotch noblemen need to betray their sworn undertaking■". "Your Gra
; then, having read it over, and having received a promise from all, she gave it
tentions, some among them have been trying to delude the minds of the people wit
 with it. Is it necessary for me to accompany you to Beauvais?" "Why should you 
ue des Menetriers I could see the light in your room. My brother is with me, and
test writings on the subject, especially his concluding words, and reflect on th
ng this retaliatory accusation, the woman’s bold assertion might have changed th
r, so instead of going down the rue Pavee they resolved to follow the rue Saint-
t me off with a false declaration, relying on my not being able to read it by th
self only five years old. Crowned at nine months by Cardinal Beaton, archbishop 
mes the case, do not be troubled on that account." Then Sand rose, leaning on Mr
philosophy, history; rhetoric, poetry and music, besides English, her maternal t
single example of a deed like that attempted on her—a deed pursued by a relative
he castle, she beheld its walls surrounded on all sides by the deep waters of th
essed himself otherwise? Does it evidence an abatement of consideration to call 
envoys were, and laughable as they appeared to contemporary historians, they rec
nance, such as inspires confidence and captivates the mind a■ first sight. Her f
ife—the death of his wife—and moreover he had forgotten that. All the affections
 than ever. Till midnight the queen remained at the window, her eyes fixed on th
e before the enemy. There he stopped, put his lance in rest, and alone against f
 always relapse into my faults; but cannot a young man like me, destitute of exp
urning pile,—armed with sabres, axes, and■knives, and snatching the bodies dead 
s just fallen upon your tutor and father by adoption; nevertheless, ter■ible tho
see■ at Orgon, with two cockades, one white, and one tricoloured, and by peeping
ay. So that in a few weeks he recovered, and was able to set out for Artigues, t
sition as director of the sisterhood and his well-known hate for Grandier would 
given up her life in this world and in the world to come; yet she was not his mo
. The bailiff wrote to the king’s attorney, who, notwithstanding his bias agains
his dying uncle and then at Joan and the little Marie, then again at his cousins
 news was heard of the massacres that had taken place during the night. The coun
but so much kindness and care have been lavished upon me, with so much delicacy 
and by the chaplain of the fort of that time that he regarded it as incontesta■l
ination for which he could not account. Bastiano disappeared, and Nisida’s broth
en to the gallows and hanged. The old woman walked to the place of execution wit
rd again. Cavalier on arriving at Macon found that his comrades had had a visit 
, and a report was drawn up by Antoine Robin, advocate and magistrate of the can
erwards gave evidence. "On leavi■g the army of the Duc d’Angouleme after the cap
 simple and tou■hing an action roused the sympathy of all present; Arnauld du Th
ed prisoner began, he attacks the opinions advanced by Lagrange-Chancel and Pere
sent to you my nephew, the Chevalier de Moranges." "Chevalier de Moranges!" mutt
zarin, calling to my aid a work by Saint-Mihiel which the bibliophile declares h
riving the vanquished to despair, Urbain replied that he was ready to endure all
ave your having to buy shoes to keep your feet off the ground!" The crowd seemed
ris the morning of the 14th of December. In the course of the d■y an unknown man
’s servants had rushed upon the scaffold, picking up the book of Hours and the c
uvois would not have written in the following terms to Saint-Mars in 1687 about 
st fl■or of an isolated pavilion, having about him only this same Alexander Durh
ven the regent." "The d■vil! my lord," said Ruthven. "I did not know you were so
ther defend yourself nor work. Go■ I begin to understand; you are a braggart, my
ever extends to giving up to me the castle keys, then you are saved! Let your Ma
or shut on the■inside, began to call loudly on her Andre. There was no answer, t
 de Riviere, others for Comte de Rochefort, whose ’Memoires’ compiled by Sandras
rts were made out as being employed on business connected with the king and the 
fathers, and without seriously occupying myself with a matter so important as re
Jeanne Kennedy, remembering the little dog who had come to his mistress, looked 
ected as he is by the seductive mantle of a great poetic reputation. Incited by 
, and it was soon evident that no disaster threatened the town, but that the kin
w■uld think about it more earnestly in future. He then withdrew. Some days later
, M. de Jalabert’s house was broken into by the red-tufts; the unfortunate old m
ving God, who suffered for thee; in t■e name of the Holy Ghost, who was poured o
w causes for the old hatred, and besides the Catholics did not long confine them
s they stand are sufficient for our object, and speak more eloquently than if us
enth day of February las■, at nine o’clock in the evening, in the arms of the af
was delirious. "What do you want, my lord?" she said to h■m; "and why do you com
having had time to warn them, their young guide may suddenly come to seek them: 
 world, in which alone we shall take our true place. Apply yourself, therefore, 
ith her. His face was against hers; he raised his head, but the dying hand, clen
ese praises, and often, when he saw the good father approaching, appeared not to
ortnight later, he received an invitation from Elizabeth to visit her at the cou
which indicated the opinion of those who frequented it. This cafe was faced by a
ving four wives living, including the queen. The wedding was dismal, as became a
llard threw himself on Villa, pinning his arms to his sides. As he had no weapon
h as afflicted the possessed, it would be only fair that she should be exorcised
ich overhung the street, and, hidden by the leaves, and resting my hands on the 
o execution till then had ever produced such an effect on the crowd, so that Abb
 St. Hippolyte to forty prisoners the very day he made submission. As we have sa
dged even the morsel of bread he had been obliged to leave her. A few days after
He called me—and he said it was only what his mother had told him—he called me a
" said Joan, pale as a corpse in its shroud, "—you believe that this flag is a t
serene a countenance as if the event which had just taken place was of little im
ch characterised him as a slanderer, and declared that he was ready to give hims
e, made his will, which was afterwards found among his papers. It began with the
ll 1830. When M. Moulin had placed the other objects in safety, he requested the
upations are so numerous (I have to collect from different sources this hundred 
h doubt, and then with hope, it takes its part, Till peace and rest alike are pu
n Mask might possibly have been Henry, the second son of Oliver Cromwell, who wa
 under him, who were actuated by the same philanthropic motives as their general
: it■would promise us a darker night; and consider, what we need is darkness, no
ing him fall back rigid and motionless, Dona Sancha burst into sobs, and cried i
lver salver, while the old steward, who, in the absence of Willia■ Douglas, fulf
-book, and wrote in it with a pencil: "Left Wanheim at five in the morning, came
ns had drawn to his c■urch the greater part of the regular congregations of the 
 child with abandoned women, and especially attached to her the beautiful and at
er motives than friendship in joining the conspiracy. The fact was, t■at Menuau 
e adventurer leaves the room. Four months later, a woman sat at the door of a ho
reat a man, he treated with the utmost insole■ce, overwhelming them with abuse w
hereupon, to perform various evolutions on her mattress, and at one moment it se
ants, from among the authorities, the nobility■ and Protestant clergy. The day f
ut any trace of emotion; then, having affixed to it the great seal of England, "
ould be with it alone?" "Enough, Ruthven, enough," cried Lindsay. "Do you not se
posed to every passion whose dull growl is now heard below ■ deceptive calm, but
. At Cavalier’s request, in order to prove to him that he stood as high in his g
nd let me know what the offers are that you have been authorised to make to us, 
 of Louis XVI, twin-brother of the Man in the Iron Mask? To nullify this simple 
, in order to support this assertion, that they contained drugs suitable to this
g to utter; because, in short, you are but a poor fisherman a■d my name is Princ
ty are not anxious to be enlightened, precautions are necessary. It’s not enough
on with a conversation t■at you might not approve. But there is a hindrance." "Y
alm voice, "that my question is quite unnecessary: from your eagerness to finish
astened to the marechal, who finding himself no longer alone in his favourable o
te fair ones. I have not broken in on your retirement; I have not shadowed ■our 
d. Sand established himself there with his mother, and notwithstanding ■is desir
io■s. Three times already had been heard the heavy thud of the instrument which 
ble to return to Thee." Sand was right in praying to Go■ for the year 1817, and 
in prison, and to gain permission for those who were free to worship God in thei
he perfectly understood:■an unfortunate being had just lost his life on her acco
or I shall only have to reckon with you two in future. Come, my dear, believe me
and not the dates: I relate everything as it happened; but the day on which it h
the least penetrating eye must have perceived its improbability, and ■ne would h
ens to Paris in a few hours. This was not the case in 1777, when pri■ate industr
 as doubtless h■ was, a party to the rising, and he set out the same night to as
ms were what the Huguenots needed most of all. They therefore sent two envoys to
ulf of Juan. Immediately all the youth of Germany able to bear arms gathered onc
 however, stole a pyx which he found in the sacristy, but as soon as■his comrade
 a pair of pistols in his belt and his carbine on his shoulder, he glided from b
all, when things are, looked at apart from one another, and it is only the putti
 notice that in general the Scotch were ready to threaten but slow to act; that,
e holidays came, and Sand left Erlangen to return no more. From Wonsiedel he was
ring the whole time the Empire lasted was also frequented by Protestants without
me, is he going to prevent my sleeping? I will not see him again!" she cried, dr
iere. She was one of the first victims who perished in the prison■massacres. *LA
brothers and cousins, and above all our chief, my good brother and cousin, and a
 agreed, saying tha■ they were indeed too much given to curiosity. So the bailif
. Hence■orward, with Sand’s permission, persons who wished to speak to him and w
 his brother, and of which he was very fond. This little horse had been bought w
n her in Greek. To which the devil replied by the mouth of the possessed: "’Ah! 
 to prevent us from becoming so. For instead of attracting us by gentleness and 
idwife and ■rdered her to examine the young girl. At the end of half an hour she
 faces, as did their leader, and the bullets passed over them without doing any 
lts; but cannot a young man like me, destitute of experience, gain it also, brea
n hitherto." "Never mind, never mind," said the king. "I repeat, sir, that I am 
nfession from him? But she had lived with him for two years, he was the father o
 a■ked to have a copy. In a long conversation with us, he discussed the subject 
whether they ought not to implore the favour o■ being allowed to follow their mi
y, when a nun appeared, saying that the devils were again doing their worst with
f heather in his cap that his comrades might recognise him. This unexpected move
 the said Derues, who of premeditated design poisoned the said Dame de Lamotte, 
tard!" His mother’s face became purple with indignation. "What!" she cried, "the
echal to be loyal and zealous, and had great confidence in him, he wrote without
astened to the collar of one of the two coats. Eager to know the meaning of this
er clothes were covered with dust and mud. As she proceeded through the town, th
htful imprecation, and hastily reloaded his rifle; but, struck by the calm confi
t— "Antoine is running■away!" Two of the best runners immediately started in pur
ile lit up his face, "Courage, my soul! I see thy place of triumph, whence, rele
ebrity under the name of Trestaillons, Truphemy the butcher, Morenet the dog she
when she learned the sentence delivered by the commissioners, Mary Stuart no lon
ad recited some prayers, Mary rose, and sending for all the money she had left, 
arles of Durazzo as she neared him to come forward, and since her tongue had not
ooded the plain, and was strongly reflected from the water, endeavoured to see i
e crowd carried them off towards the wooden bridge. When the fourteenth arch was
hoose. "(Signed) "(Countersigned) "LOUIS PHILIPPEAU "Given at Versailles the 25t
ary. And in case any impediment should appear to this marriage by reason of the 
eak." But George, instead of replying, advanced to the queen, and, kneeling on o
 one night through the vaults of a country house near Beauvais. Behold other vic
ence, did he fear that she would notice some difference? She had paid little or 
urbances to grumble and express their disapproval at my efforts to bring them to
? How do you know that I did not make every effort to find out why you were so l
ngs against Duthibaut in Paris, information was laid against himself in Loudun. 
s ascended to the ramparts, and while the others defended themselves at the foot
thousand men was rather a large number for one town to furnish, but was told tha
passed the■greater part of her youth there with her own people, who belonged to 
 standing and with uncovered head. According to M. de Saint-Mihiel, the ’Man in 
r the ill-success of the exorcisms of November 26th having made increased precau
 the basement storey of one of the lateral towers of Castel Nuovo. Charles of Du
urprise mixed with angry tones, hasty footsteps, then the garden gate was flung 
my verse, Of this thy sad lament, Whose burden shall rehearse Pure love of true 
pansiveness, when the Prince of Tarentum, exhausted, out of breath, bathed in pe
ight with swords on the same night behind■the church of Saint-Andre-des-Arts by 
 commissioner royal, offering him a paper. "My father," said Urbain, turning tow
an both began to complain of constant nausea, which they had never suffered from
out the fields. The next day the poor woman-ventured b■ck, collected the desecra
stored to them. ’Granted on condition that they take the oath of fidelity to the
information. There is nothing, down to the marriage of Sebastian, with which he 
ield of battle. Then after a short silence, during which they examined each othe
t at this time the memory of our quiet life in the mountains inspired us with a 
 pleasant expression, and winnin■ voice. He soon came back in his mayor’s robes,
his nephew. Also, to cover these atrocities, and in order to appropriate to hims
ysiognomist. When the eulogistic warmth of the good brother began to slacken it 
n years in order to leave you in trou■le and refuse to answer for you. What the 
lly German heart, and that would consider me as a coward and an unworthy son if 
e first and second floors contained a dozen rooms in which these abominable myst
n regiments, forming in all a corps over nine hundred strong. They took the dire
ers and appear before the lawyers, mounted some guards in the ante-room where th
king round him with a daze■ expression, said, "My uncle—?" "You had better go," 
t it does not do to hesitate in the face of such rebellions, had already had him
 declare that she would soon become a mother. She indignantly refused to save h■
l, he sent, in spite of being a distant connection of Memin, whose daughter was 
at party of the adventurers who fought under his orders. This unexpected defecti
ed that he was ready to endure all the persecutions which his enemies might succ
 new Deci■s prepared to execute his act of devotion. The deed was not free from 
 him some distance. Arrived at the parting point, they separated with a tender k
rney easier, used to start horseback about seven in the evening, sleep at Rieux,
for the year 1818, he writes: "Lord, let me strengthen myself in the idea that I
 suggestions might be conveyed to the superior, and that the prope■ thing to do 
ards education, she could sustain comparison with advantage; for if s■e had less
y; for Lord Lindsay had declared that he wished to reach his destination that sa
ate position, Cavalier listened to the propositions laid before him by Lacombe w
red, Jonquet was removed from the wheel, and carried, his broken limbs dangling,
s done in England by M. de Bellievre about the affairs of the Queen of Scotland,
mber 22nd, Rene Mannouri, surgeon to the convent, was s■nt to one of his colleag
nished as possible. You■ mother, who only lives for you, is going to present you
ortunate lady had risen, ■nd was sitting near the window which overlooked the de
r blood. At these words the Earl of Kent could no longer contain himself, and wi
 death as an alleviation of their woes. At length they were separated, but the s
s killed in a tournament, Henry III and Henry IV were assassinated. As to Henry 
, "you must now subdue her by fear. The secret of her honour is in our hands, an
oan. But if it be thy will, To see ■ormented still Wretched me, Then let my wofu
rs, they were billeted on the inhabitants, and received each as daily rations a 
the Archbishop of St. Andrew’s was one ■f his most declared enemies. The king, l
errible results of a battle which plunged France into mourning, and which would 
bricated in a particular form for the Catholics of Nimes, Uzes, and Alais. But F
nk■Roger Bacon possessed, which answered all the questions that were addressed t
he door, although no sound of steps on the creaking wooden staircase had been he
 new ceiling which Le Brun had just finishe■, but really to have a good look at 
recognise him as a sovereign. Finally, his brother, Henry Benedict, the last hei
ize it!" cried Seyton. "Perhaps," returned Lord Arbroath, "but not before me!" "
eale, Arnyas Paulet, and Drue Drury, entered. Behind them, drawn by curiosity, f
pe by the door, were captured. The soldiers, horse and foot, being now free to g
, more impressive than cries and sobs. The priest collected himself for a moment
reupon the Veni Cr■ator Spiritus having been sung, he rose, and addressing the b
upon him. Then Bothwellhaugh; seeing that whip and spur were not enough, drew hi
 breathle■s curiosity. Then, through the silence, a figure advanced, carrying a 
e. He fired into the air. "That does not count, my lord," cried Gabriel instantl
nterval between the■former delights and the present seemed wiped out as if the b
. La belle Isabeau, trembling for the safety of her lover, joined her entreaties
 only needing proof, and soon afte■ the cruel accusation was started it was repe
ree companions, who surrounded the victim and robbed him of all means of escape.
 it put off again for the castle. As the boat drew nearer, Mary’s presentiments 
as at first. See■ng which the Earl of Shrewsbury said— "Madam, truly I despair t
can aloud, "he should be stronger than I; for it is stated in the ritual that am
e marechal, who, furious■at the turn things had taken, resolved instantly to bre
tter marksmen than the townspeople, soon laid many low. Upon this the alarmed cr
 courtesy of men who had learned to esteem each other on the field of battle. Th
 varied from twenty to three hundred crowns; and to t■ese sums she added seven h
i’s hopes, who but for her might have lo■ked forward to one day becoming a duche
ternal on one side, on the other the frivolous pomp of royalty—eternal punishmen
 remain permanently sitting, while the other went to seek Roland and Ravanel to 
lready," continued George, "assembled their troops, who keep themselves in readi
 he could not permit more than three of her women to accompany her. Mary Seyton 
, or Uzes, to confer with M. de Villars, Roland merely received an intimatio■ fr
s, where we came up with the National Guards who had been repulsed by the townsp
made them, they said■ suspect that, knowing he had reached the end of Ashtaroth’
ing of Hungary or else of the grandson of the King of France." "Ah, I understand
onceal his impatience and annoyance at being watched; for her looks hung upon hi
oblemen need to betray their sworn undertakings". "Your Grace forgets that these
morrow, madam," answered the Earl of Shrewsbury, stammering. "It is well," said 
ded in establishing the fact that■Prince Eligi of Brancaleone, having taken a te
but all was useless: th■ queen had made up her mind. At that, moment Lowther app
h?’ asked my mistress. ’Spare my life.’—’No; shut up!’ replied he. ’You shall di
d; the conspirators no doubt will gain over Andre’s valet, the man you call your
s office. This second attempt at identification succeeded no bette■ than the fir
l?" "Well, I happened to tell him in one of my letters that Monsieur Derues had 
ow; then he told me that he knew I had brought a letter for him, but that he wou
aving been quite unsuspicious before her uncle’s accusation, and nearly out o■ h
twenty voices all at once. "What! Derues who is in Prison?" "Why, that’s Monsieu
 not give way now and lose everything. I bring you your mother’s blessing; she a
ing for which I have to reproach myself is that, without intending it, I caused 
m him, put off his visit to the convent until the next day. But the next day cam
ef with his family, and remained there from Whitsuntide till the end of November
jaundice, which was caused, in the opinion of the doctors, by worry, anxiety, an
ation, and dreamed only of happiness. She was so happy now, her long sorrow was 
 nothing to fear; but having learned by experience how easi■y suspicions arise, 
ide had, like Chamillard, taken a step forward, when the scornful answer of the 
anying the soul of a certain Le Proust, attorney to the Parliament of Paris, to 
sides. The young Cevenol was in sight, and the whole population hastened to meet
e ground and his arms crossed upon his breast in an attitude of the deepest resp
 The house in front of which she sat belonged to her, so also the immense field 
tion strutted about with impunity where once the proudest nobles had been glad t
a position at court. De Paratte, charmed with what he had heard, and enchanted w
accomplish one’s mission as accuser, and to discover a criminal, false witnesses
t that the archers could not succeed even by blows of their weapons in clearing 
 part of the King of France, began to make her the remonstrances with whic■ they
s given by the said Sieur; and all governors and lieutenants-general are also he
 Francois de Langlade Duchayla, prior of Laval, inspector of missions in Gevauda
een worrying my back for the last hour, as though he could see through it." "It 
f your Majesty cannot be fulfilled; but, not having been inst■ucted to bring a s
nd having got inside the gates, closed and bolted them. He then decided that it 
 that the morrow would bring forth wondrous things; that the chief devil would s
u love me no longer." Out of all patience with these constant interruptions, A■d
ples, there is no need to say that we refuse that rendezvous, since it is in rev
 the ■ridge with him, and accompanied the general to where his soldiers had halt
rmed me into happiness. But when I was again alone my terrors revived, I saw my 
icers in his regiment, and at the same time he handed him a captain’s commission
o well how to disguise his falsehoods, he went back to the young de Lamotte, who
t from her companion’s hands, opened it, and read: "The moment draws near; your 
g his name and the cause of his imprisonment, he replied that such an avowal wou
delivered belated sermons, to which the rebels listene■ trembling with fear, and
her life should be devoted to atoning for her sin by a boundless devotion. She t
of the mighty: He judgeth among the gods. "’How long will ye judge unjustly, and
gold shone on the table; the intoxicating perfume of flowers filled the air; win
low!" "My poor gossip Derues!" "Good heavens! what will he do now?" "Alas! he is
nd simultaneously they withdrew from her circle, without even letting her know t
nt for your Majesty’s safety; the second, that the turn for night watch of Thoma
le silver coffer of which the cipher, an "F" crowned, showed that it had belonge
f a portrait of his brother. One of the upper servants of the house, a young gir
m it lively and light tones, which soon darkened little by little, at the same t
th all the solicitude of a timid soul, "pray suffer me to sprinkle drops of holy
r. G———interrupted him. "Sand," said he, "what did you promise?" "True," he answ
ld stain herself with Queen Mary’s blood, it will be a matter which will bring ■
 of the sick and dying to the baptism of the newly born. These latter were oft■n
ered to give fifty muskets and the same number of bayonets to M. d’Aygaliers, wh
 What the widow ■f Martin Guerre must have suffered in this life of effort was a
 to take a serious turn, to recall them both—a command which they would be const
ng for the safety of her lover, joined her entreaties to those of his friends, a
her the evening before go to the till, slip his hand in, and take out some money
 holding Angelique’s hand when a step resounded outside, and a voice was heard. 
into which the Archbishop ■f St. Andrews’ balcony looked was on his road, he ent
ches three lines and a half, but I don’t need absolute exactness." Angelique gaz
l hesitate to feel serious alarm; I am unwilling to believe in such utter deprav
 suffering, he went as a mere clerk into one of the leading mercantile houses of
s. "You, kind Julia, you desire nothing else but to save me from the fate that a
fears. "I will answer with my head," said the general, "that nothing happens." S
 her dressed, as well as Miss Mary Seyton, in t■eir men’s clothing, and he will 
 on a table ro■nd which the judges had sat, and covered over with a black serge 
ection. "I■can’t see a living soul," said Jeannin, "and I very much fear that th
collect themselves, she shut the door again, and vanished like a passing but thr
his personal influence. It was thus easy for Elizabeth to put arms in his hand. 
se to dwell on it. But at length we grew weary, for such is man, of our life■of 
uered peoples. Like ignorant farmers, who exhaust fertile fields by forcing crop
ng a poem; but no doubt he burned it, for no trace of it was found. At eleven he
 seemed as if she were only preparing for a journey or change of dwelling; then 
e produced as a proof of the existence of the said Dame de Lamotte; "Sixthly, in
nd courage, and so long as that light shines I shall still believe in liberty." 
ey arrived at was to write to the attorney-general and to the Bishop of Poitiers
of fence, whereas the prisoner, having wished to try what he could do, showed no
 square. The sky was overcast, and the grey daylight hardly penetrated the narro
es. The approach of all these troops following close on the terrible proclamatio
-book of M. de Bonac would be sufficient to annihilate this theory. M. de Bonac 
same task, and provided with a conside■able sum of money sent him by foreigners 
he asked me to send her her son, I thought to oblige her by accompanying him, an
dwelt near the Louvre. The two commissionaires employed had been selected in dis
dling the latticed wind■ws with killing glances, following the procession in an 
uit of their teaching was that Derues learnt to be a cheat and a hypocrite, and 
ermany free. On the 10th of December■in the same year he left Richembourg with t
 your Majesty could do him; while, on the contrary, he could not imagine anythin
sieur le cure? I see my boy; he is waving the handkerchief, and his mother is wi
m tuum, creatorem tuum" (Adore God, thy Creator). The superior hesitated, as if 
iff, "and also for the purpose of requesting you to put one or two questions to 
ced, ■egan to shout, "The sword of the Lord!" Immediately all the troops turned 
 so till our just demands are granted." "But if they were granted—?" "Then, sir,
case of a struggle it would be no despicable ally. Those approaching turned out 
s to assemble, and proceed without intermission to the trial of the prisoner. Th
r mind. I still recall with emotion your fervid and sincere aspirations towards 
reat, you see, and nothing small, when things are, looked at apart from one anot
eir unlucky attempt, afforded them all the assistance they needed. Mary returned
journey, Mary thought that William Douglas was going to Edinburgh. As to the boa
 permission to rebuild our places of worship, and sends us back all prisoners an
hat you will give me not■ce before you use the document I have given you against
ard son of Anne of Austria: "I see no objection to your removing Chevalier de Th
utions had both a good and a bad side. The gens d’armes at the door of the meeti
 their old comrades, amongst whom were Duplan and Cavalier’s young brother, who 
naud bade his sailors keep in the open, threatening to throw any man into the se
the road with an army of nearly ten thousand men. Murray was at Glasgow when he 
execute it: yet, for the complete satisfaction of the said demands made by the E
the famous pitchforks belonging to the company of Froment. He fell, but the assa
aving no bias against him would be more impartial than Mignon and his adherents.
before him the dangers to which he would expose himself by running counter to th
ad sustained a terrible shock. He continued more quietly— "What, Bertrande, is i
lready between the castle and the boat, the ball ricochetted at twenty paces fro
oyal house. Seconded by him and by twenty thousand soldiers from the north, she 
