eeting, M. Trinquelague, advocate of the Royal Courts, read a powerful address, expressing the love, of the citizens for their king and country, and exhorting t
 it shall drive it to the appointed place, save and except mules and asses, which shall be employed in the transport of corn to whatever places it may be needed
bloody day of Vergenne. The lieutenant of the guard met him at the gate. Cavalier quickly dismounted, and throwing the bridle of his horse to one of his men, he
nce. M. Desmonts had therefore little cause for anxiety as to his safety either in the streets of Nimes or on the road between that and his country house. But, 
 horse, and drawing his sword, led his soldiers as usual against the dragoons, and these, as was also usual, ran away, leaving twelve of their number dead on th
oeton’s right leg; but the singing was at once resumed, and continued without interruption till each limb had been broken in two places. Th■n the executioner un
n having eight or ten thousand men ready to rise at the first signal■ They had furthermore resolved that there should be risings in several places at the same t
d appeared to be a prey to ■he most abject terror. The prisoner continued his supplications, and the assassins their threats and mockery. I climbed quietly down
 verses to the townspeople to keep within their homes, and not to look out of door or window on pain of death. The abbe was in his oratory when he heard the ■in
en to him lay over a large rock. This he successfully scaled, but before trying to get down the other side he raised ■is hands in supplication to Heaven; at tha
t the knowledge of the Duc d’Angouleme. During his stay in Nimes he received Protestants and Catholics with equal cordiality, and they sat at his table side by 
ear a way for him till the Montpellier road was reached. He lay that night at Langlade, in order to rejoin his troops early next morning. But during his absence
 was encouraged to do this by her coachm■n, who had often met with Camisards in the neighbourhood, and although a Catholic, had never received any harm from the
t with a large body of disciplined troops ready to take the field against his enemies; for not only would the Camisards, if they were supplied with officers, be
he 23rd of September. Once rid of him, Louis the Magnificent thought that he had done his part nobly and that he owed him nothing further, so that d’Aygaliers w
iz., place de l’Hotel-de-Ville, place de la Maison-Carree, place Saint-Jean, and place du Chateau. "Article 13. The companies as they are formed by the permanen
 ones, and riding them bare-backed had dashed through the front gates before the dragoons could stop t■em. The horses that were left were so wretched that Rolan
 Moussac, which they found deserted, so they went on to Lascours-de-Gravier, a little village belonging to the baron■ of Boucairan, which M. de La Jonquiere gav
er shrugged his shoulders and replied that such matters were no business of theirs, being too high for their intelligence; that it was his business to decide wh
ollicking air, to laugh with cool carelessness when there is nothing between you and death but the more or less strong pressure of a highwayman’s finger on the 
 the new faith and praising God. Two days after the sentence on Esprit Seguier had been carried out, the body disappeared from the gallows. A nephew of Laporte 
ay word arrived that the Imperial Government had been ■roclaimed at Montpellier. The next day, April 3rd, all the officers on half-pay assembled at the fountain
leven o’clock in the morning one of their sentinels in the defile gave the alarm by firing off ■is gun and running back to the camp, shouting, "To arms!" But Ca
ix■persons, having, say de Thou and Melville, Rizzio seated on her right; while, on the contrary, Carapden assures us that he was eating standing at a sideboard
en and children stones and pitchforks, and everyone made ready to face a danger which only existed in the imagination of Bertrand, for there was not a shadow of
king words expressing their intentions, some among them have been trying to delude the minds of the people with false hopes of full liberty for the exercise of 
en greatly talked about at court, and in spite of his natural modesty the reception he had met with at Nimes had given him new ideas, if not of his own merit, a
 officials of the municipality were of opinion that it would be more prudent to delay the distribu■ion of the muskets until after the meeting of the Electoral A
o one will disturb them as long as they don’t insist on public worship." "At first that was all they wanted, monseigneur; and I am convinced that if people had 
veral articles in which I exposed the dangers which threatened altar and throne. Struck with the justice of my criticisms, my countrymen displayed the most zeal
th. "13th June 1790■" This note being brought to the lieutenant, he came out, and reminded the volunteer that nobody but the town authorities could give orders 
, but he noticed M. de Villars’ rich dress and air of command. He therefore saluted him first; afterwards, turning towards the others, he bowed to each, but les
face. In fact, England and Hol■and, desiring nothing so much as that an intestine war should waste France, were making unceasing efforts to induce the exiles to
Villars was still on the same friendly terms with him, treating him, not like a rebel, but according to his new rank in the French army. On the 21st June he tol
his service. But, being informed that instead of keeping the engagements they had made by signing petitions, by writing letters, and by speaking words expressin
In all, 466 market towns, hamlets, and villages, with 19,500 inhabitants, were included. All these preparations made Marechal de Montrevel set out for Aix, S■pt
lunteers were going to get up a ball for the dragoons. After this piece of bravado he went away, and in a few moments a note arriv■d, couched in the following t
hat the marechal, however much inclined to the side of d’Aygaliers, did not venture to act quite alone, and said he would not decide on any course until he reac
of the party who were fired by the desire of vengeance; twelve or fifteen others were in the same position. The abbe in his room listened to the noise of the st
n to think they might as well follow the example set them by their brothers from Beaucaire. In twenty-four hours free companies were formed, headed by Trestaill
o had been denounced by Villas when under torture (and who thereby abridged his agony) as the person in whose house the plot to carry off the Duke of Berwick an
 crime which was committed by braver cutthroats than he. Behind him came ■he general of the "Emancipating Army of Vaucluse," who, graciously saluting the crowd,
eathed their swords, and, having saluted the king, went away. Mary had gone away with a single thought in her heart, vengeance. But she understood that she coul
ourgueselle, Ginestous, Fressinet, Fourques, Malbos, Jousanel, Campis, Campredon, Lous-Aubrez, La Croix de Fer, Le Cap de Coste, Marquayres, Le Cazairal, and Le
o come. Both consented to do as they were asked, and M. d’Aygaliers arrived at Durfort on the 3rd of June 1704. The deputies havin■ first thanked him for the tr
 way from Montarem, pillaging houses, murdering magistrates, outraging women, and then throwing them out of the windows. It is easy to understand the effect of 
 to Nimes, so the banquet took place without interruption. A bust of Napoleon was carried in procession all over the town, and then the regular soldiers and the
to the baptism of the newly born. These latter were often brought to him at night to be baptized, and he consented, though unwillingly, to make this concession,
outing between the verses to the townspeople to keep within their homes, and not to look out of door or window on pain of death. The abbe was in his oratory whe
 valley, or buried in the depths of the f■rest which hid them like a veil, made the difficulty still greater; whole days were often lost by the workmen and mili
n dismount and give him his horse, on which he crossed the river Gardon, leaving behind him on the battlefield twenty-fi■e officers and six hundred soldiers kil
 on this day in a way■which astonished everyone. For who could help being astonished to see a nobody, inexperienced in the art of warfare, bear himself in such 
o horse should be sounded. Putting himself a■ the head of his dragoons, he advanced on the mill, and before the Huguenots knew that they were about to be attack
periods of civil strife; but we were not left long in uncertainty, for the details of the catastrophe arrived all too soon." CHAPTER VIII For some days Avignon 
ion of some clever strategist. The fact is that everything leads one to believe that it was a plan which had been formed with great care, for the rapidity with 
on, Abbe Tremondy, the cure of Notre-Dame, and Abbe Plomet, canon of the cathedral, came to his cell to make a last effort to convert him, but he refused to spe
il war, all good citizens were expected to gather, and which was kept at the town hall, and which should have been brought out at the first shot, was now loudly
day when she ceased her quest, and was ■een sitting, her head covered by a black rag: Pointu was dead, but it was never known where or how. In some corner, prob
 such a manner that the heels and head met; and never once during the completion of this atrocious performance did the voice of the sufferer cease to sound fort
ar what the prisoner had to say. Catinat then, in the presence of the duke and Sandricourt, proposed that an exchange of prisoners should be made, the Marechal 
Several historians assert that Mary Stuart had black hair; but Brantome, who had seen it,■since, as we have said, he accompanied her to Scotland, affirms that i
e date of Cavalier’s departure drew near. A town was to be named in which he was to reside at a sufficient distance from the theatre of war to prevent the rebel
o the old traditions which had come to them from Cavalier, Catinat, and Ravenal, fought one to twenty, but they were all without importance; they were only the 
he two meeting-houses should be reopened and restored to their proper use. The Protestants were alarmed at, having a favour accorded to them which was much more
 "Melville," she continued, "tell me frankly, is my sister as beautiful as they say?" "She has that reputation," replied Melville; "but I cannot give your Majes
e-lys had been distributed amongst them, made of red cloth; this change in the colour of the monarchical emblem was a threat which the Protestants well understo
 several men took advantage of the circumstanc■ to push in along with him; but Vernet let his fist fall three times, and three men rolled at his feet like bulls
therefore convinced that the only course to pursue was to get, his co-religionists to put an end to the struggle themselves, as the one way of pleasing His Maje
ived several blows; but at length M. de Boudon brought me paper and a pen, and I wrote:—’I require the troops to assist us to maintain order by force if necessa
who had taken refuge there, and were re-forming. Carried on by the rapidity o■ their course, the Camisards could not pull up till they were within a hundred yar
 entered one of the houses which he and Villa, captain of the town troops, had had assigned to them, they found three men sleeping on mattresses laid on the flo
s met with some resistance in the villages of the plain, such as St. Germain and St. Andre, it was otherwise with those situated in the mountains; in those, whe
e should be thought, as doubtless he was, a party to the rising, and he set out the same night to assume command of his troops, his mind made up, as Mary only h
hat title, monseigneur, only some people call me so in joke: the king alone has the right to confer titles, and I rejoice exceedingly, monseigneur, that he has 
rcise of their religion." "What! legalise once more the exercise of the so-called Reformed religion!" exclaimed the minister. "Be sure you ne■er mention such a 
completely surrounded: he gave the situation a comprehensive glance—his foes, were five to one. Rising in his stirrups, so that he could see over every head, Ca
te, was condemned to death. Mary entreated her brother that Chatelard might be sent back to France; but Murray made her see what terrible consequences such a us
features, to which his extreme youth, his long fair hair, and the gentle expression of his eyes lent much charm. Two years of warfare had given him a martial ai
 and drums beating the generale. We were getting so accustomed to the uproar that we were not very much astonished. However, when we got in we asked what was go
 given to the very old, and to women with child who may be unable to walk. "VI. A regular distribution of the militia is to be made, so that each house to be de
o’clock. It being then completely dark, he got out of the window, crossed the city, gained the open country, and walking all night, concealed himself during the
or about an hour, I■offered to fight the man who had induced them to oppose us. "At this offer they pointed their muskets at me once more; but Maille, Malplach,
ided that M____ and another friend of ours who had just arrived from Paris should go to him and make the offer, which he would at once accept all the more readi
ich landed proprietor from the city; seeing that he was in it, I alighted to ask him what was happening at Nimes. ’I hope you do not think of going there,’ said
; "as I have so many enemies, the general might be told if I were killed that I had broken my word. Give me pen and ink." Writing materials were brought, and he
ous troubles, near the bedside of her dying father, the cradle mourning was to stretch for her to the grave, and her stay in France had been a ray of sunshine i
nt-Esprit on the day and year above written. "(Signed) LEFEVRE Adjutant and Chief of Staff of the First Corps of the Imperial Army of the South "(Signed) BARON 
his man is not to die; for inasmuch as he has showed mercy to our brethren we must show mercy to him." Whether this fact had been miraculously revealed to Segui
ation of the Reformed religion. The farmer mentioned Generac as being a place in which he would probably find a hundred or■so of the brethren gathered together.
he others, receiving from Roland a positive refusal, so that it became evident that resort must be had to other means than those of persuasion. A sum of 100 Lou
mitted to M. de Lalande. What this reply was did not transpire; probably it was not in harmony with the pacific intentions of the marechal. At last, on the 25th
 a man whose influence was as striking as the risen fortune w■ich gave him the opportunity to exert it. We refer to David Rizzio. David Rizzio, who played such 
al. "Idiot!" said someone else, "to ask ’Qui vive?’ of a dead man!" "He is not dead," said a third voice; "listen to him singing"; and indeed the poor fellow in
hal Brune, tried to harangue the people, but his voice was drowned by the shouts of the mob who had gathered round a coffee-house where stood a bust of the empe
rom the city guard, which still retained its organisation of 1812, being composed of citizens without distinction of creed. Six decorations were conferred on it
e and be buried according to the ordinances of their own faith." "Where may you have seen anyone who was ever made to communicate by force?" asked Chamillard. D
or the moment, however, there was no explosion, although the city was at fever heat, and everyone felt that a crisis was at hand. On the 22nd March two battalio
nd food■in and around the villages, but this was soon at an end, and as they could hardly expect the peasants to keep up the supply, and the provisions they had
g garb—a beauty so wonderful that it shed around her a charm which no one whom she wished to please could escape, and which was fatal to almost everyone. About 
gan now to call himself "Comte Roland," did not lag behind his young brother either as warrior or correspondent. He had entered the town of Ganges, where a wond
bound to explode some day, as the slightest friction between the two parties would produce a spark. This state of concealed enmity lasted for nearly a year, bei
ng to allow Mary to enter this castle, which was a royal one. It is true that Murray, aware that it does not do to hesitate in the face of such rebellions, had 
cal, and give up your arms." At the same time the red-tufts, seizing the captain from behind by the hair, pulled him down. Froment fired his pistol, but missed.
he trial of a poor boy of fourteen, the son of a miller of Saint-Christol who had been broken the wheel just a month before. For a moment the judges hesitated t
s own house and shot. Clos was met by a company, and seeing Trestaillons, with whom he had always been friends, in its ranks, he went up to him and held out his
etreat. Then he faced his foes like a wild boar driven to bay. Suddenly loud shouts behind him announced that the bridge was forced; but the Camisards, instead 
le that they could carry out this order, for Trestaillons protested that he would only give up his carbine with his life. However, he was at last obl■ged to yie
e communes in the department over which the white flag still floated. And all this happened, as we have said, on April and, eleven days after Napoleon’s return■
rrying on secret correspondence wit■ each other, I went to Nimes to wait for the assistance which I had been promised from Turin, but which I never received. Wh
ters relating to the Catholic religion and in the service of the king, that he never could find himself in the presence of a Protestant without expressing his i
o; but He for whom I suffer is beside me and gives me strength to bear everything joyfully." Just then M. de Baville’s■order was repeated, and the archer, no lo
, thought only of his own. Then it ceased to be a battle and become a massacre, for the royals were ten to one; and among those they encountered, only sixty had
ted. Born amid the first religious troubles, near the bedside of her dying father, the cradle mourning was to stretch for her to the grave, and her stay in Fran
 to Louis XIV, and he returned it with notes in his own writing; thus these two hands, to one of which belonged the shepherd’s crook and to the other the sceptr
that town abandoned by the magistrates, declared it in a state of siege, lest disturbances should arise in the absence of authority. Having placed M. de Bresson
l, knowing the state of intense excitement which prevailed in the South, and foreseeing the perils likely to meet him on the road, asked permission to travel by
 that!" and he was forced to get down again. As Vernet opened the door to let him in, several men took advantage of the circumstance to push in along with him; 
who, as we have already said, had turned in the direction of the firing. Hardly had Cavalier e■fected the desired junction of his forces than he perceived that 
nt of another company, one Allien, a cooper by trade, taunted one of the men with having carried a pitchfork the day before, in disobedience to orders. He repli
 perceived that the danger of getting in was as great as eve■, so I determined to walk up and down till night, hoping the darkness would come to my aid; but one
ly released prisoners confirmed its truth, calling out that the man had indeed treated them with humanity. Just then a roar as of a wild beast was heard: one of
th the French dauphin, son of Henry II, she was taken to Dumbarton Castle, to await the moment of departure. There she was entrusted to M. de Breze, sent■by Hen
 unheard-of cruelty. "An old man named Bessieres, who had led a simple and blameless life, and whose only crime was that he had served under the Usurper, antici
o reached Nimes on the following Tuesday, the troops which we had seen returning at the gates of the city had been despatched on Wednesday to disperse these ass
en. Sprung from so low, he at least wished to show himself worthy, of having risen s■ high, and owing everything to Mary, he tried to repay her with devotion. T
could be seen hovering above Mount Geneve. On the 12th, the Duc d’Angouleme arrived: two proclamations calling the citizens to arms signalised his presence. The
ordered not to fire until the royal forces were engaged in the struggle with him. M. de La Jonquiere having approached to within a certain distance, halted, and
her proxy the Earl of Bedford, who set out with several other noblemen for Stirling Castle, where the young prince was christened with great pomp, and received 
had forced his way into the chamber of the dying, not to bring consolation but menaces; and bending over the bed, as if to keep back the Angel of Death, he had 
they found the landlady waiting on the staircase, who at once overwhelmed my wife with a torrent of abuse. "The husband, who until then had known nothing of the
 way he encountered his wife and his son, who were going to the latter town to intercede for him. When they met him, they dismounted from their horse, for the m
ning a confession, became more impatient than the sufferer, and, forgetting his sacred office, the judge struck and insulted the prisoner. Upon this Baeton rais
arechal stopped him with such an imperative gesture that he stepped back as if to show that he wash■d his hands of the whole matter. "What are those rights? Are
etaining life, till at length his patience exhausted their rage; and seeing him become unconscious, they thought he was dead, and with mutilated hands, his brea
ty’s will that those who are found in the, aforesaid province of Languedoc without such certificates be regarded as fanatics and rebels,■and that they be prosec
e new converts from Beaucaire to Nimes. They killed a woman and two children at Campuget, an old man of eighty at a farm near Bouillargues, several persons at C
er?" A second shot was the reply, and a bullet grazed his shoulder. Seeing that no other answer was to be hoped for, Cavalier turned to his soldiers. "Do your d
orgiven to the daughter the enmity borne them by the father. This was why James Douglas, chancellor as he was, and consequently entrusted with the execution of 
oner than M. de Laveze had counted on. Resolving not to leave him time to take defensive measures, they dashed at the house, and by standing on each other’s sho
 installatio■ of the Town Council, and brought his company with him armed with pitchforks, in spite of the express prohibition of the colonel of the legion. The
ess affairs, but really in the interests of the Reformed faith. Between the outlaw and the apostle union was natural. Du Serre found in Cavalier a young man of 
ut hair falling on his shoulders, and an expression of remarkable sweetness. He was born in 1680 at Ribaute, a village in the diocese of Alais, where his father
of the monastery nearest the fortifications and demanded the key of another door which led to that part of the ramparts which was opposite the place des Carmes,
l-in-chief, will retire to their homes and there await the orders of His Majesty the Emperor. "Art. 3. Officers of every rank who wish to resign their commissio
fforts he had made to win back his troops, and the conditions they demanded. He ended by assuring him that he would make still further efforts, and promised the
e colonel ordered the ’gineyale’ to sound: the town guards assumed arms, the troops left the barracks and formed in line, the National Guards in the rear of the
he marechal had the gibbets a■d scaffolds taken down, which until then had been permanent erections. At the same time all the Huguenots were ordered to make a l
f anger aroused by this unexpected check, he issued the following order: "Since coming to this province and taking over the government by order of the king, our
ckade, the second a tricolour, and the third none at all, and yet they went about on the most brotherly terms, each awaiting under a different banner the outcom
es were of no avail. Laplace ordered the men to be taken outside the town and shot. The young girl was condemned to be hanged; and the sentence was to be carrie
amphlets, entitled Pierre Roman to the Catholics of Nimes, were distributed to the people in the streets, containing among other attacks on the Protestants the 
by a tapestry hanging before the door. From there one could overhear all that was being said, and at a single bound fall upon the guests. Darnley left them in t
f the scaffold, it was found he could not mount without assistance; for his limbs, crushed in the terrible "boot," could no longer sustain his weight. While the
refet and M. le Commissaire General de la Police. But if the civil authorities slept, Gener■l Lagarde, who had shortly before come to town to take command of th
e, Abbe de Belmont. When he arrived at the Calquieres, the red-tufts, who still adorned the ramparts and towers, began to fire upon the procession, and one of t
nding voice of history, the news of the defeat of the French army and the triumph of the Allies spread apace. Then General Verdier, who held the chief command i
of the Catholic religion. History has preserved the names of the five wretches who perpetrated these crimes: they were Pierre Vigneau, Antoine Rey, Jean d’Hugon
Brune’s character was contained in these words. "Public tranquillity was indeed twice endangered at Marseilles during the Hundred Days, and both times in the sa
 of them, not all, advised her, and even urged her to it, and deeply repented their error." Mary was obedient, as we have seen, and she began her journey under 
ise which would have been dangerous for anyone else. He promised first of all to explain to Cavalier the offers of MM. de Baville and de Lalande. Lacombe kept h
e, that he would come ■o the bridge of Avene on that very day, the 12th May, at noon, and sent his letter by Catinat, ordering him to deliver it into the hands 
died upon the scaffold. Besides, to Elizabeth, who had never seen her, and who consequently could only judge by hearsay, this beauty was a great cause of uneasi
n who were sent to Saint-Esprit. Just before their departure fleurs-de-lys had been distributed amongst them, made of red cloth; this change in the colour of th
 is not so easy as you think. Nevertheless, tell your queen that I love her tenderly, and that I w■sh we could live more in friendship than we have done up to t
f towns and other enclosed places from perishing. "Upon this he replied, that although the Catholics seldom kept a promise made to those of our religion, he was
the report of a gun: the arm which Ro■and had stretched out against his adversaries fell to his side, the sword with which he had threatened them escaped from h
 pack our trunks. As they left their rooms, having accomplished their task, they found the landlady waiting on the staircase, who at once overwhelmed my wife wi
nd those who were unable to do this were put to the sword. In Dions nine corpses were found supposed to have been killed by their hands, and when the body of a 
ody was that which was before his eyes, and that on this subject there could be no mistake; for he had approached near enough to recognise Cavalier himself in t
 to take a detachment of the troops under him and patrol the banks of the Gardon between Ners and Castagnols. He was of opinion that if the Camisards were attac
Boudon brought me paper and a pen, and I wrote:—’I require the troops to assist us to maintain order by force if necessary.’ Upon this, the officer consented to
 one of the places granted to the houseless villagers as an asylum, asked and received formal permission from the captain of the Soissonais regiment, by name La
e to witness a judicial execution, and stood immovable and impassive while these horrid deeds went on before their eyes. But the penalty of this indifference wa
 a year’s absence floating once more above the walls. No arbitrary interference on the part of the authorities, no threats, and no brawling between the citizens
n case of need, as a weapon. A sentinel who was near cried, "Who goes there?" but d’Aygaliers stunned him with his bar. The cry, however, had given the alarm: a
ath. Although the other pastor, M. Desmonts, was president of the Consistory, his life was in much less danger; for, first, he had reached an age which almost e
ked. We saw Commandant Magne loose the flag from its staff, roll it up and put it in his pocket. We asked the general what we were to do with our arms; he repli
 of their families, and the desolation of their country; and we shall take care that the true authors of these misfortunes shall receive punishment proportioned
she took pity on me and brought me everything she could think of a■ likely to do me good, and as soon as I was a little revived I asked to be shown the way to M
ached and distributed among the cebets, and told them to walk about the streets in threes, and to disarm all the dragoons whom they might meet away from their p
 very minute." "That man is mine, my lord," Mary said, rising proudly, "and consequently takes orders only from me." "To me, Douglas!" cried Darnley. At these w
using it, as it had become a means of exciting sedition. Party feeling had reached this height at Nimes when, on the 4th March, the news of the landing of Napol
 the courtyard gates, thus cutting off all chance of retreat from their comrades. In the event; however, it turned out that several of the latter contriv■d to e
te, guarantees to the other religious bodies protection and freedom of worship. Our military commandant, whilst trying to disperse these crowds by gentle means 
nks to the hatred which the king bore them, the Douglases had: not only lost all their influence, but had also been exiled to England. This hatred was on accoun
e. The country was ravaged, my friends had grown cold, their purses were empty, a hundred towns had been sacked and burned, the prisons were full of Protestants
 up arms, and that the suspicions which new converts excited have driven a great many of them to join the insurgents. In taking this step they were also impelle
th regard to the live stock, the persons who may be found in charge of it shall drive it to the appointed place, save and except mules and asses, which shall be
nding out whether they were Catholic or not, made them say in Latin the Lord’s Prayer, the Ave Maria, the Symbol of the Faith, and the General Confession, and t
fficers, step by step, to the barracks, and having got inside the gates, closed and bolted the■. He then decided that it was his duty to repulse force by force,
tant religion, which had been entirely suspended in the city for the same length of time. Formerly there had been six Protestant pastors resident in Nimes, but 
ng the condition of the tower, they agreed to lay down their arms and send them for the palace, while they themselves would proceed to the Electoral Assembly an
rrived bringing a despatch from General Ambert. Learning that General Briche was a prisoner, the messenger carried his packet to the colonel of the 63rd Regimen
 came near and gave his blow, saying, "Take that for my brother, whom you let die in the ’ceps.’" This time the dagger pierced the heart, and the abbe had only 
igued had withdrawn into a hollow between Boissieres and the windmill at Langlade, in order to rest. The infantry lay down, their arms beside them; the cavalry 
 de la Maison-Blanche, captain of the Froulay regiment; while Roland in return sent M. de Villars four of his principal officers with the title of plenipotentia
d his regiment should be despatched to Spain without delay, in order to weaken the Calvinist forces to that extent; meantime Salomon was sent back to Roland wit
replaced the white cockade, everyone being obliged to wear the national emblem or none at all, the city was proclaimed ■n a state of seige, and the military off
in Aussilargues, in the parish of St. Andre. Driven by hunger and misery, they went beyond the prescribed limits in search of means of subsistence. Planque hear
sards perceived the approach of the soldiers, their first thought was to escape by the bridge, but one of them having gone up to the roof to make sure that the 
very day. Suddenly he found himself surrounded by four men, who, upbraiding him for his exactions and cruelties, shot him twice through the head with a pistol. 
 be learned of the result was that Salomon had declared that his brethren would never lay down their arms till full liberty of conscience had been secured to th
ourning for Henry, she passed to that for her mother, and from mourning for her mother to that for her husband. Mary felt this last loss both as woman and as po
zabeth replied impatiently, "do you not know that Mary Stuart has given birth to a son, while I am but a barren stock, who will die without offspring?" Yet Eliz
e in the diocese of Alais, where his father had rented a small farm, which he gave up when his son was about fifteen, coming to live at the farm of St. Andeol, 
 escape by the back door. He was stopped by some of the National Guard, and placed himself under their protection. "They took him to the Cours St. Louis, where,
ited M. Desmonts, president, and M. Roland-Lacoste, member of the Consistory, to dine with him. The next deputation to arrive w■s a Catholic one, and its object
 of the 2nd Subdivision. On the 6th, General Gilly went to Nimes, and sent in his acceptance, whereby the departments of the Gard, the Lozere, and Ardeche passe
uthority. "On my return to Langued■c, I went from town to town in order to meet those gentlemen to whom the Comte d’Artois had written, among whom were many of 
■ng with his son, his daughter-in-law, two grandchildren, and two servants; but the carriage was stopped, and while the rebels were murdering him and his son, t
 win the rebels back by mildness, and he begged them to second his efforts in this direction by spreading abroad the fact that an amnesty was offered to all tho
ed; for the wind having dropped, when daybreak came the vessel was still within sight of France. It was a great joy when, awakened by■the steersman, who had not
ome other way of driving their quarry to bay. Sunday, the 13th of June, arrived. This day had been selected by the Catholics for a great demonstration. Towards 
it flashed through the■marechal’s mind that instead of giving hostages he should have claimed them. At this moment Cavalier appeared at the gate, and seeing the
nding him. At the noise of the report shouts were heard about a hundred yards away. It was the Camisards, who had been on the point of leaving the town, but hea
tablished at Nimes to see that this rule were strictly kept, you would soon see Protestantism disappear. "The Protestants demand to share all the privileges whi
ed the red pouf, which was immediately adopted as the Catholic emblem. Each day as it passed brought forth fresh brawls and provocations: libels were invented b
 granted him by George III, died completely forgotten, bequeathing to the House of Hanover all the crown jewels which James II had carried off when he passed ov
nel bore all the torments that could be inflicted on him with a fortitude that was more than human, so that the torturers were exhausted before he was. Jonquet 
on. This they followed till they came out below Marvejols, where they crossed the river. They now thought themselves out of danger, thanks to this manoeuvre, bu
 a sufficient reason for their delay, which certificates they shall forward to the above-mentioned commandant or intendant. And His Majesty furthermore commands
d of the commissary department, Vincel, ordered suitable accommodation to be provided for Cavalier and his troops; the muster roll being in the hands of M. d’Ay
have the air of playing for him. In fact, the same day, Hunsdon, agreeably to her instructions, led the ambassador into a gallery separated from the queen’s apa
ected all the instruments they could find that could be used in attack or defence. As to the Camisards, they encamped for the night near an old chateau called F
n across it at full speed, and regaining his room at the hotel, threw himself on the floor, where he rolled like a maniac, uttering cries of rage, and cursing t
 still continued to look at him in silent astonishment, turning from time to time to Baville and Sandricourt, as if to assure himself that there was no mistake 
ch. But the mountains had swallowed up the fanatics, and nothing was ever known of their fate, except that from time to time a peasant would relate that in cros
er by a sabre-cut, and the grenadiers falling into disorder, first lost ground and then fled, pursued by Catinat and his horsemen, who, seizing them by the hair
and his travelling-companion went direct to the garden of the Recollets, and hardly had they got there than MM. de Villars and de Baville, accompanied by Laland
urse until he reached Uzes. D’Aygaliers saw clearly that until he had obtained the approbation of either the general or the intendant, he would get nothing from
oups into a little army. Thus the streets leading to the church being thronged, the Protestants who pushed their way through were greeted with insulting remarks
d of a regiment which was sent to the aid of the Duke of Savoy, who had begged both England and Holland to help him. He bore himself so gallantly that it was in
on give them enough of it." The anger of the populace soon grows hot; between the first bubble and the boiling-point the interval is short. Threats spoken in a 
es killed under him; the fir■t time he caught a dragoon’s horse, the second time he made one of his own men dismount and go on foot." M. de Montrevel also showe
own, the bearers were ordered to turn round; they obeyed, and the crowd carried them off towards the wooden bridge. When the fourteenth arch was reached, the bi
 me he should like to correct. I begged His Majesty to tell me what the fault was, and I should try to get rid of it at, the peril of my life." "’It is your rel
ey obstinately refused to let them out of their hands, and by doing so increa■ed the suspicions of the people. A parley of a very excited character took place b
house occupied by a widow, whom I had often begged to take refuge wit■ us. But, secure in her insignificance, she had always declined our offers, preferring to 
was signed by several nobles and by almost all the lawyers and merchants of the city of Nimes, was presented to M. de Villars on Tuesday, 22nd April, 1704, by M
 they were stopped on the Petit-Cours by Froment, commonly called Damblay, who, pressing the barrel of a pistol to the captain’s breast, said, "Stand, you rasca
break in the door and go to the help of the chief conspirators. These instructions given, Darnley led Morton, Ruthven, Lennox, Lindley, Andrew Carew, and Dougla
greater number were without weapons, for they had thrown them away in their flight. Many were incapacitated for service by their wounds; and lastly, the cavalry
racter for loyalty which the marechal bore, and how impossible it was that d’Aygaliers should lend himself to treachery. So Cavalier sent back word that he woul
 war. When the calm was broken, it was from Marseilles that the provocation came. We shall efface ourselves for a time and let an eye-witness speak, who being a
, 466 market towns, hamlets, and villages, with 19,500 inhabitants, were included. All these preparations made Marechal de Montrevel set out for Aix, September 
ich is their chief charm.]_ This part of herself that Mary left in France was the body of the young king, who had taken with him all poor Mary’s happiness into 
 Avene at noon, accompanied only by a few officers and thirty dragoons. I expect to find him there with a similar number of men." "But," answered Catina■, "it i
er Grand-Vicar of Alais, and of Baroness Arnaud-Wurmeser (for the abbe administered the estate of Aureillac in his own name and that of the baroness), galloped 
ps who ought, it seems to me, to try to make us Catholics, are the instruments which Providence uses to prevent us from becoming so. For instead of attracting u
the evening, but I am going to Marseilles at once; for I cannot endure this uncertainty any longer. If I find Sai■t-Just clear, I shall come back and rejoin you
at and his lieutenant, Franqois Souvayre, tendered their submission; on the 22nd, Amet, Rol■nd’s brother, came in; on October 4th, Joanny; on the 9th, Larose, V
s he replied, that although the Catholics seldom kept a promise made to those of our religion, he was willing to risk his life for the welfare of his brethren a
 Cavalier sent Ravanel to demand provisions from the inhabitants; but they, proud of their natural ramparts, and believing their town impregnable, not only refu
more■because of the revelations he made, was only sent to the galleys. Several years later he was liberated and returned to Arles, and was carried off by the pl
ed hands, his breast furrowed with wounds, his limbs half worn through by heavy fetters, he was suspended by the wrists to a branch of a tree and abandoned. A p
own house and shot. Clos was met b■ a company, and seeing Trestaillons, with whom he had always been friends, in its ranks, he went up to him and held out his h
, in order to certify the cause of death, a leathern belt was found on him containing 5536 francs. The body was carried downstairs by the grave-diggers without 
I hope I have now heard the last, I have received numberless letters full of such complaints that it would seem as if the prayers of the Camisards not only grat
et, proving worthy of his reputation, never missed a single shot. Then, resuming their flight and loading their weapons as they ran, they leaped rivers and ditc
t. The chase lasted four hours, during which time five officers, thirty dragoons, and fifty Swiss were baffled by two men, one of whom Francezet was almost a bo
 declined our offers, preferring to live solitary and retired in her own home. But the freebooters sought her out, burst i■ her doors, drove her away with blows
 we have given above, produced exactly the contrary effect to that intended. The inhabitants of the proscribed districts were convinced that the order to gather
 like a child’s, Mary was a harmony in which the most ardent enthusiast for sculptured fo■m could have found nothing to reproach. This was indeed Mary’s great a
ome there yourself to take a lesson in hospitality. If I am a rebel, it is not I who am answerable, for it was the tyranny and cruelty of M. de Baville which fo
ejuvenated by its long sleep. A writer whose name I have forgotten, in describing the Massacres of the Second of September and the death of the unfortunate Prin
hat instead of keeping the engagements they had made by signing p■titions, by writing letters, and by speaking words expressing their intentions, some among the
our churches, and go to the desert. Out with them! Out with them! To the desert! To the desert!" As the crowd did not go beyond words, however insulting, and as
 for this villag■, and arrived in the middle of the Camisards at the very moment when they had just caught sight of M. de Broglie and his troops in the distance
rdly had the prisoner caught sight of them than, seeing himself already hanged, which was no wonder considering the marvellous celerity with which executions we
ides your remonstrances, of which I hope I have now heard the last, I have received numberless letters full of such complaints that it would seem as if the pray
gh the crowd with great trouble, and went off at a gallop. On seeing this, the people felt there was no time to be lost; they knew of what kind the general was,
en men who had remained faithful to him. He asked them where Ravanel and his troops were, not seeing a single Camisard in the streets; one of the soldiers answe
nto two bodies, one under the command of M. de Julien to advance on Alais, where it was reported large meetings of the rebels were taking place, and the other u
anted at the monastery. "We want to destroy it, we want to pull it down till not one stone rests upon another," they replied. Upon this, the re■erend father ord
up: it was the Marquis de Florae himself, captain of the regiment which bore his name; but when he arrived on the scene he found, not the arrogant peasant who h
 Nimes. The general sent back word that the conditions were, that the troops should be allowed to march out fully armed and with all their baggage; the five gun
is true that he arrived by the light of thirty burning village churches. M. de Broglie, M. de Baville, M. de Julien, and Captain Poul met together to consult as
ho had in his pay vigilant and faithful spies in whom he had every confidence. Montrevel a■cordingly ordered the commandant of Lunel, M. de Grandval, to set out
tary cast of mind no course was open but to carry that order out. Nevertheless, the president again expressed his doubts and fears. "I will answer with my head,
 of infantry to move towards this point by forced marches. These troops were commanded by Colonel Saint-Laurent, but General Ambert was anxious that if it could
 examining magistrate set about drawing up a report of the■suicide. Now that all was over and there was no longer any question of saving the marshal, M. Moulin 
 in his patois. "I’ll show you how to do it"; and, receding a step, he took aim with his carbine at his victim, whose back was partly towards him. A report was 
reached the cavern, which they never would have discovered without a guide, so cleverly was the entrance hidden by rocks and brushwood. On ente■ing, the first t
ould, they openly rebelled against the queen. This was the first ostensible act of that hatred which was afterwards so fatal to ■ary. The queen, on her side, ap
gn over there in her wild country; but her uncles, at least some of them, not all, advised her, and even urged her to it, and deeply repented their error." Mary
r although they had appealed to fanaticism, forced the Town Council to do their will, scattered gold lavishly and made wine flow, out of eighteen companies only
hat the letter he was writing to the Austrian commandant to claim his protection should fall into the hands of these wretches, he tore it to pieces. Then a man 
 in 1817. He describes his mode of action in the following words:— It is not difficult to understand that being faithful to my religion and my king, and shocked
and those with whom I was continued to yell at me to go on. I went on until I met them. I besought them to retire, even throwing myself at their feet. But all p
d a hasty meal, they advanced to the barracks and crossed the courtyards. The concourse of people and the enthusiasm was no whit less than on Cavalier’s first e
 him, my brethren! you must pardon him! If he has done wrong in the past, he will do better in future." Then those who had taken aim at Cavalier grounded their 
on pain of death. "13th June 1790." This note being brought to the lieutenant, he came out, and reminded the volunteer that nobody but the town authorities coul
ure that he was bringing M. de Villars more than he had expected. And, indeed, as soon as the marechal saw how far things had gone, in spite of everything that 
d battle there was no time to load and fire; swords flashed and fell, bayonets stabbed, the royals and the Camisards took each other by the throat and hair. For
of a friend a M. de Paratte, a colonel in the king’s army, and who afterwards became major-general, but who at the time we are speaking of was commandant at Uze
rder to prove the steadfastness of his faith. And inde■d he endured his torture with such firmness, that M. de Baville, who was present in the hope of obtaining
d Ravanel, whose headquarters at the moment were at Leuzies, in order that they might know exactly what articles had been agreed on between Roland’s envoys and 
empty, a hundred towns had been sacked and burned, the prisons were full of Protestants, the fields were uncultivated. Added to all this, the long promised help
the scaffold threw ■imself before the sufferer, saying that the Huguenot had not yet suffered half enough. At this, Boeton, who had heard the dreadful dispute g
 he relied on the help of the Duc d’Angouleme, who in the course of a tour through the South was almost immediately expected at Nimes. On the 5th of November th
re a certain Boucarut, who on receiving his report ordered the generale to be beaten and the tocsin to be rung. Then the consternation became general: the men s
r the heretics that they had not realised the danger of the revolt. He immediately proceeded to inspect in person the different points where M. de Broglie had p
ranks of his soldiers, and not pausing till he was within fifteen paces of them, although they raised their weapons to fire. Then making a sign with his hand th
 as wild flowers, weeds, and roots fall before the ploug■share." This destruction was accompanied by horrible cruelty. For instance, twenty-five inhabitants of 
ain of dragoons named Montgros, with twenty-five soldiers, accompanying him everywhere, by M. de Villars’ orders, and seeing that the villages through which the
nd the king’s, all the Scottish lords and barons, including those who had been compromised in the affair of the "run in every sense," to whom she not only grant
eir houses also razed to the ground and their goods confiscated, and furthermore being regarded and treated as rebels to the commands of His Majesty." To this p
, which was signed by 5,000 inhabitants." This resolution, which was at once a religious and political manifesto, was drafted by Viala, M. Froment’s secretary, 
 first impulse, to compromise herself by a longer display of her grief. The ball was not discontinued on that account, and the interrupted quadrille was resumed
sty commands that all the inhabitants of Languedoc who may be absent at the date of the issue of this proclamation, return home within a week, unless their abse
e case, then I must say with great regret that I know of no other way to calm the discontent which will ultimately result in the ruin of one of the fairest prov
he galley slaves were set at liberty, which, according to article 2 of the treaty, would be within the next six weeks. As to Cavalier, the marechal gave him on 
y sent to him by Colonel Saint-Laurent to inform him that he, the colonel, had occupied Pont Saint-Esprit, and that the Duc d’Angouleme, finding himself thus ca
ts, who were prowling around in the neighbourhood of the palace, rushed into the yard carrying guns and swords. The lieutenant, who had only about a dozen drago
 who could then choose whichever course best suited them, and either leave the kingdom or serve the king. I said that I believed the last course to be the best,
en, entering the tent of their chief, Barbanaga, he cut off his head. His tall and agile figure, his warlike air, his love of hard work, his hoarse voice, his f
. Lalande, however, reassured him by telling him the young Huguenot was behind. In a few minutes a great tumult was heard: it was the people hastening to welcom
m all dead, was astonished when Cavalier and his Camisards rose up and rushed upon the royal troops, advancing to the sound of a psalm. At a distance of ten pac
p in field order, apparently waiting to escort the troops out of the city. At four o’clock P.M. the troops got ready, each company stacking its arms in the cour
atholic?" asked Chamillard. "No, monseigneur," replied d’Aygaliers. "Then how did you manage to return to France?" "To spea■ the truth, sir, I only came back to
r less shocking came to light as to the manner in which the murderers went to work. A man called Dalbos was in the custody of two armed men; some others came to
first that was all they wanted, monseigneur; and I am convinced that if people had not been dragged to confession and communion by force, it would have been eas
rs, and an expression of remarkable sweetness. H■ was born in 1680 at Ribaute, a village in the diocese of Alais, where his father had rented a small farm, whic
irst onset. Then a strange incident occurred. About thirty women wh■ had come to the camp with provisions, carried away by their enthusiasm at the sight of this
not be the cleverest or the strongest, but the readiest. If we do not destroy this man, we are lost. We must strike him dow■, this very evening, not the day aft
ing his absence things had happened among these men, who had hitherto obeyed him blindly, which he little expected. He had left, as usual, Ravanel in command; b
e Protestants, and especially the Protestant nobles who had never borne arms, would be regarded as cowards, who had bee■ prevented by fear of death or persecuti
ated that if the offer he had brought were not quickly accepted—say within two hours—the time for capitulation would have gone by, and that he would not be answ
st his nephew, that the as■assins had had a grudge, but finding the nephew out when they burst into the house, and a victim being indispensable, they had torn t
egarded him with growing astonishment; for he could not believe that in the young man, or rather boy, before him he saw the terrible Cevenol chief, whose name a
w, and just as my wife and her mother reached the street, shouted to a free band who were on guard across the way, ’Fire! they are Bonapartists!’ Fortunately th
houses and brought to the square to be put to death. The rest of the crowd had, like ourselves, been drawn thither by curiosity, and were asking what was going 
ry. This order being conveyed to the executioner, he approached the wheel to break in Boeton’s chest with one last blow; but an archer standing on the scaffold 
lidity of judgment: versed in politics, philosophy, history; rhetoric, poetry and music, besides English, her maternal tongue, she spoke and wrote to perfection
g in■or out of garrison. But soon reports of firearms, accompanied by an uproar with which we were so familiar that we could no longer mistake its meaning, were
rshal had been induced to hoist the white flag at Toulon, while with a cockade in his hat he had formally resigned the command of that place into the hands of t
ook to be a simple street row, gave orders that the bust should be brought out, and this concession, so significant on the part of a general commanding in the e
nd. "Cavalier," says M. de Villars, in his Memoirs, "acted on this day in a way which astonished everyone. For who could help being astonished to see a nobody, 
Baville, d’Aygaliers paid him a visit. The intendant received him coldly but politely, asked him to sit down, and when he was seated begged to know the motive w
 Their measures were successful: Daude came along just as was ■xpected, and as he had not the slightest suspicion of the impending danger, he continued conversi
 I do; but He for whom I suffer is beside me and gives me strength to bear everything joyfully." Just then M. de Baville’s order was repeated, and the archer, n
 The recall of M. de Montrevel had been brought about in the following manner:—M. de Montrevel having just come to Uzes, learned that Cavalier and his■troops we
 their various magazines, having been reduced to arm themselves with bad swords, pitchforks, and bayonets attached to sticks. Hardly a man survived the fray. Ra
ck our heads, decorated according to circumstances, out of the windows, and shouted vigorously, ’Long live the king!’ or ’Long live the emperor!’ as the case de
r again, he held out his hand to me, but I threw myself into his arms and gave him a last embrace. "I started at once: when I reached Saint-Just I found the fre
he road to Uzes, pipe in mouth, when he was met by five men belonging to Trestaillon’s company, who surrounded him and stab■ed him to the heart with their knive
in this manner, a great commotion was heard: Cavalier turned in the d■rection from which it came, and perceived the king just entering the vestibule. It was the
 uncultivated. Added to all this, the long promised help from England had never arrived, and the new marechal had appeared in the province accompanied by fresh 
swer, clever as it was. "My mistress, madam," responded Melville; "I am obliged to confess it." "Then she is too tall," Elizabeth said sharply, "for I am tall e
ed to escape by the door, were captured. The soldiers, horse and foot, being now free to give all their attention to Brun and Francezet, a wonderful race began;
 to their message they set about barricading their gates, turned their scythes into weapons, fastened large hooks on long poles, and collected all the instrumen
where his soldiers had halted. There, with another salute, the two chiefs parted, M. de Lalande taking the road to Uzes, while Cavalier rejoined his comrades. M
the Cafe Mercantier, but the door was shut in his face. Being broken by fatigue, breathless, and covered with dust and sweat, he threw himself on one of the ben
isans among their fellow-citizens, they felt certain that people from the country would rally to their aid; but about ten o’clock in the evening the rebel ringl
f foot, and having under him Captain Poul and M. de Dourville, set out from Cavayrac on the 12th of January at 2 a. m., ■nd having searched without finding anyt
eived a letter from M. le Marechal de Villars ordering me to repair to Nimes, as he wished to see me, the answer to my demands having arrived. I obeyed at ■nce,
s good, and they all hastened to follow it: benches, chairs, and furniture of all sorts were heaped up in the hall, a palliasse thrown on the top, and the pile 
vance the interests of religion while advancing the interests of royalty, it would be easy to save both. "My plan had for sole object to bind a party together, 
e contrary of those which produced it, such as putting an end to the persecutions and permitting a certain number of those of the Reformed religion to bear arms
umed his route. As it had rained, he soon came on the trail of the Camisards, the terrible game which he was hunting down. For three hours he occupied himself i
ese words, he darted out of the house and mounted his horse, being met at the door by twelve to fifteen men who had remained faithful to him. He asked them wher
. But she counted too much on the respect of a nobility accustomed to struggle hand to hand with its kings for five centuries. Andrew Carew held a dagger to her
f I am a rebel, it is not I who am answerable, for it was the tyranny and cruelty of M. de Baville which forced us to have recourse to arms; and if history take
o submitted received rewards of money, some more, some less; the smallest amount given being 200 livres. They all received passports, and were ordered to leave 
to which I■was an eye-witness, and which made the most terrible impression on me of, anything in my experience. It was midnight. I was working beside my wife’s 
ed that if you give it your support, as they do not doubt you will, knowing your patriotism, your religious zeal, and your love for our august sovereign, it wil
it, I alighted to ask him what was happening at Nimes. ’I hope you do not think of going there,’ said he, ’especially at this ■oment; the excitement is intense,
 order of the day. Instantly the colonel ordered the ’gineyale’ to sound: the town guards assumed arms, the troops left the barracks and formed in line, the Nat
ouse. But, as we have said, it was not so with M. Juillerat. Being young and active, and having an unfalt■ring trust in God, on him alone devolved all the sacre
ter of a lance for want of a visor, slept before his time with his ancestors, and Mary Stuart ascended the throne of France, where, from mourning for Henry, she
when, awakened by the steersman, who had not forgotten the order he had received, Mary raised herself on her couch, and through the w■ndow that she had had open
o sadly. "Ah! madam," Elizabeth replied impatiently, "do you not know that Mary Stuart has given birth to a son, while I am but a barren stock, who will die wit
l dragoons, who had taken refuge there, and were re-forming. Carried on by the rapidity of their course, the Camisards could not pull up till they were within a
rom which depended his sword, and on his head a gold-laced hat of black felt. He was mounted on a magnificent bay horse, the same which he had taken from M. de 
ance what had happened, now came up, and rescued Francezet from the hands of his assailant, who had continued to rain blows upon him, desiring to put an end to 
ness to reenter Scotland at the first notice he should receive. Then, this point settled, they made Darnley sign a paper in which he acknowledged himself the au
nture to follow him. And in fact the first two days were quiet, and his troops benefited greatly by the rest, especially as they wer■ able to draw stores of all
set out for Nimes that same evening, having been offered the use of a carriage. "Nothing worthy of note happened on the road to Orgon, which we reached next day
 to give them up to these villagers—in fact, they obstinately refused to let them out of their hands, and by doing so increased t■e suspicions of the people. A 
onour so unexpected and so great, that his impression was that some treason lay behind it; but he was soon reassured when he recalled the character for loyalty 
■ed had been swallowed up for ever. Next day it was found on the sandy shore at Tarascon, but the news of the murder had preceded it, and it was recognised by t
 first feeling was one of astonishment and dismay as it caught sight of the motley crew which held out to it the right hand of fellowship. The new-comers soon s
ed we should have been stopped. "We walked at random, while behind us we heard musket shots from every part of the town. We met a company of soldiers who were h
they might be able to induce■others to do like them; and on the 15th June eight of the troops which had abandoned Cavalier at Calvisson made submission; while t
 had had opened, saw once more the beloved shore. But at five o’clock in the morning, the wind having freshened, the vessel rapidly drew farther away, so that s
eived Cavalier as if he were still the chief of a powerful party and able to negotiate with him on terms of equality. At Cavalier’s request, in order to prove t
ormally resigned the command of that place into the hands of the r■yal authorities. "Henceforward in all Provence there was no spot where he could live unmarked
less from devotion to the cause than to avenge a private wrong, and on many occasions had given rise to the remark that he had more genius than religion. So, on
, to take eight dragoons and make a reconnaissance, in order to ascertain who these men were, while the rest of the troops would make a halt. This little band, 
e would never lay down arms till the Protestants had obtained the right to the free exercise of their religion. Firm as was this answer, Lalande did not despair
 Councillor. Upon this an old corporal shouted, "Brave soldiers of Guienne! the country is in danger, let us not delay to do our duty." "Yes, yes," cried the so
l strength, the other for his skill and agility. Indeed, it was said of him that he never missed a shot, and that one day being pursued by dragoons he had escap
 all negotiations and have recourse once more to measures of severity. However, before actually carrying out this determination, he wrote the following letter t
n me, O God, according to Thy great mercy!" before he fell back dead. But his death did not satisfy the vengeance of those who had not been able to strike him l
ow been discovered. Accordingly, the duke issued a proclamation offering a reward of one hundred Louis-d’or to whoever would take Catinat, or cause him to■be ta
eagles. On the 24th March it was reported in Nimes that Louis XVIII had left Paris on the 19th and that Napoleon had entered on the 20th. This report was traced
 and to undertake no other duty except at the express request of the Town Council. Although it was expected that the dragoons would revolt against such a humili
placed detachments of the Tournon and Marsily regiments. It is true that he arrived by the light of thirty burning village churches. M. de Broglie, M. de Bavill
t to save the valuables which he had in his carriage. He found in a cash box 40,000 francs, in the pockets a snuff-box set with diamonds, and a pair of pistols 
 of God from my mouth. If this man will join us and take upon him the duties of a pastor, let us grant him his life, that he may henceforward devote it to the s
afety for me, or back to the village; where certain death awaited me. A happy inspiration flashed across my mind, I would get some refreshment, and seeing an in
 must now defend them against their enemies; for I shall send you to command my army on the Moselle in the next campaign." The, Duke of Berwic■ arrived at Montp
nd jewels. It proved to be that of M. R____, inspector of reviews. Several carried muskets. I pointed out to my companion a stain of blood on the trousers of on
e soul, he was se■zed with strange tremors, and falling on his knees with folded hands and bowed head he remained for hours wrapt in thought, so motionless that
 of the troops of the line, with the request that the contents be communicated to the militia stationed in the Esplanade. "SIR,—We have just been informed that 
eral reproduction of this historic document: "We the undersigned, French nobles, being conv■nced that our Order was instituted that it might become the prize of
n the spot. "That was like killing a■lamb," said a comrade to the murderer. "Pooh!" said he, "I have taken a vow to kill four Protestants, and he may pass for o
y looked as if drawn by a pencil, eyes continually beaming with the witchery of fire, a nose of perfect Grecian outline, a mouth so ruby red and gracious that i
n upon them. A few of these ill-fated men rallied at the sound of Ravanel’s voice and made an effort to defend themselves in spite of the prevailing confusion; 
teen hundred men who were sent to Saint-Esprit. Just before their departure fleurs-de-lys had been distributed amongst them, made of red cloth; this change in t
s at fever heat, and everyone felt that a crisis was at hand. On the 22nd March two battalions of Catholic volunteers had already been enlisted at Nimes, and ha
 ■onfusion and alarm that prevail in the town. As a good citizen and a true patriot, I entreat you to send an order to the regiment of royal dragoons to repair 
ough to strike were dancing round them. "Our time passed listening to such stories; suddenly I saw a friend running towards the house. I went to meet him. He wa
aching the crowd trie■ to persuade it to disperse, to which the only answer they received was a shower of bullets. Convinced by this, as he was well acquainted 
rning, in order to get to Calvisson, which, as our readers may remember, was the place appointed for the residence of Cavalier during the truce. In passing thro
f uniform. On the other hand, the dragoons were all Protestants. However, these latter were so very gentle in their admonitions, that al■hough the two parties f
re placed between the two pieces of wood, which were then, by means of a vice at each end, brought gradually together. Translators Note.] These prisoners were t
 man to suffer s■ch an outrage quietly. He walked straight up to the marquis and stood right in his way. The marquis tried to push him aside with his elbow, but
is hou■e was surrounded during the night by the royals. Faithful to his principles, he offered no resistance, but held out his hands to be bound. He was taken i
sures put in force against them which had driven them to take up arms, which they were ready to lay down if His Majesty would grant them that liberty in matters
. The officers upon this took him prisoner. Just as they had consigned him to the barracks for confinement, a post-office official arrived bringing a despatch f
he came out, and reminded the volunteer that nobody but the town authorities could give orders to the servants at the palace. The volunteer gave an insolent ■ns
ier prevented him by throwing themselves on him, and succeeded in knocking him down after a fierce struggle. While, this was going on, his two companions were s
; in the first impulse of anger aroused by this unexpected check, he issued the following order: "Since coming to this province and taking over the government b
no weapons, he tried to push him to the wall, ■n order to stun him by knocking his head against it; but when the servant, being wounded, let the lantern fall, h
 faculty which some men possess by nature, placed himself at their head and took those measures for the reception of the royal forces of which we ■ave seen the 
ces there. At a consultation which was held just after my arrival, I showed them that if they would arm not only the partisans of the throne, but those of the a
 revelations he was about to make proved to be of real importance. The bargain being concluded, the Genevois made the following statement: "That several letters
their families, and the desolation of their country; and we shall take care that the true authors of these misfortunes shall receive punishment proportioned to 
y ran, they leaped rivers and ditches, taking advantage of the less direct road which the troops were obliged to follow, to stop and take breath, instead of mak
 ground against so large a force, he ordered two shots to be fired as a warning to de Brogue to advance to meet him, and fell back on his comrades. Indeed, the 
e militia who had planted a maypole at the mayor’s door were invited to lunch with him. On■the 2nd, the company which was on guard at the mayor’s official resid
 not that he had foes like me, but friends like him." M. de Baville grew pale with anger; for whether Cavalier k■ew to whom he was speaking or not, his words ha
 them. This deed accomplished, they went farther into the cave, which to their great surprise contained a thousand things they never expected to find there—heap
ded as fanatics and rebels, and that they be prosecuted as such, and punished with death, and that they be brought for this purpose before the aforesaid Sieur d
een sent with two hundred men to the depot of field artillery in the country, returned with six pieces of ordnance, determined to make a breach in the tower occ
 Andre. Driven by hunger and misery, they went beyond the prescribed limits in search of means of subsistence. Planque hearing of this, in his burning zeal for 
ge to say they came from the weaker party. On the 27th March six men met in a barn; dined together, and then agreed to make the circuit of the town. These men w
life as a shepherd at the Sieur de Lacombe’s, a citizen of Vezenobre, but as the lonely life dissatisfied a yo■ng man who was eager for pleasure, Jean gave it u
 left us, and we all got away as best we could." "After the capitulation of the Duc d’Angouleme I found myself," deposes Paul Lambert, lace-maker of Nimes, "in 
ery day was marked by tortures and executions: several prophets were burnt at the stake; Francoise de Brez, she who had preached that the Host contained a more 
ther they should obey them or not. This insubordination was too much for Cavalier’s patience. "The orders are," he said, "to put on the uniforms that are being 
ike me, Of whom both heart and eye Within the coffin lie? Who, in the tender spring And blossom of my youth, Taste all the sorrowing Of life’s extremest ruth, A
 a consultation which was held just after my arrival, I showed them that if they would arm not only the partisans of the throne, but those of the altar, and adv
 give people an exalted idea of his importance. As to his soldiers, they were billeted on■the inhabitants, and received each as daily rations a pound of meat, a
next day, Catinat, who, with a dozen men, was in hiding in a vineyard of La Vaunage, was surprised by a detachment of Soissonnais; eleven of his men were killed
This information was laid before the Duke of Berwick, and he and M. de Baville ordered certain houses to be searched, whose owners were in their opinion likely 
 those who were neither maddened by fanaticism nor devoured by the desire of vengeance. One of these, a Protestant, Baron d’Aygaliers, without stopping to consi
ders that the "Cadets de la Croix" pursued the same method in 1704. Meantime Descombiez, Froment, and Folacher remained masters of the ramparts and the tower, ■
 This expedition completed, the same company which had brought this expedition to a successful issue next turned their attention to a small country house occupi
 building was ablaze, and the Arch-priest, yielding to the entreaties of his servants, fastened his sheets to the window-bars, and by their help dropped into th
s marrying into her own family, allowed the Earl of Lennox and his son to go to the Scotch court, reserving it to herself, if matters appeared to take a serious
 edifying to all the bystanders; and this being over, Cavalier went to the quarters assigned him, which were in the best house in Calvisson. Arrived there, he s
let those who love me follow me!" He pronounced these words in tones so full of grief and affection that many were shaken in their resolution; but Ravanel and M
ed frenzy, and everyone capable of carrying arms rushed to the entrance of the village. The volunteers, hearing the uproar and seeing the hostile preparations, 
 we should be able to procure a carriage and get to Nimes, where my family lived. But my wife did not agree with me. ’I must go back to town for our things,’ sa
to Mary Stuart’s room, and hid himself under the bed; but at the moment when the queen was beginning to undress, a little dog she had began to yelp so loudly th
 the supply, and the provisions they had brought with them being also exhausted, they were soon reduced to biscuit and water; and they were not even able to mak
re heard about a hundred yards away. It was the Camisards, who had been on the point of leaving the town, but hearing the shot had turned back, believing that s
t people now rushed to the house indicated, and soon left nothing of it in existence but its walls. A little later it was clearly proved that the individual acc
 saw him coming. I was about to run out to meet him, but M____ held me back, pointing out the danger of such a step; so we sat still our eyes fixed on the appro
rishes to repair instantly to the places hereinafter appointed, with their furniture, cattle, and in general all their movable effects, declaring that in case o
e Solier, will be burnt to the ground. God, by His Holy Spirit, has inspired my brother Cavalier and me with the purpose of entering your town in a few days; ho
th was to be inflicted, a wooden platform five or six feet high, on which was fastened flat a St. Andrew’s cross, formed of two beams of wood in the form of an 
t, far from Boeton’s death inspiring the Protestants with terror, they were only encouraged to hold out, as was proved by their tears, and the praises they lavi
ied this for a year, he went to Versailles to report himself to the king. While he was there, it chanced that the en■oy from Gevaudan arrived, and the king bein
but always prepared for martyrdom. Nothing held him back, and years ago he had had his grave hollowed out in the church of St. Germain, choosing that church for
 as that they might not be seen on the snow-covered ground. A brig■tly lighted window looked into this courtyard; it was that of the queen’s study: at the first
regard to dress, his mature age, his tried courage, his taciturn habit, the length and weight of his sword, all combined to render him formidable. Therefore no 
was recalled from India, and a year later was sent to Mende, with the titles of Arch-priest of the Cevennes and Inspector of Missions. Soo■ the abbe, who had be
ee thousand." "Then," replied Cavalier, "there is nothing more to be said, for I could not accept passports for any smaller number, and I could accept for the t
s coming down the hill, but the abbe felt convinced that it was only an unorganised crowd which was going to try and carry off six prisoners, at that moment in 
ed from the gate at the bridge of Calquieres to that at the end of College Street. From daylight to dusk all the patriots who came within range were fired at wh
especially the Protestant nobles who had never borne arms, would be regarded as cowards, who had been prevented by fear of death or persecution from openly taki
timately recovered. "The whole day was passed in the commission of deeds still more bloody than those of the day before; the sewers ran blood, and every hundred
uft were killed, while all the other occupants of the monastery ran away, taking refuge in the house of a Protestant called Paulhan. During this attack the chur
 all costs. So, turning to M____, I said: "’You can remain here without danger until the evening, but I am going to Marseilles at once; for I cannot endure this
if they were about to perform some act most pleasing to God, and their prayers ended, they marched down the hill to the town, singing psal■s, and shouting betwe
lf on the sofa, quite overcome by the thought that only that morning my wife had been beside me under my protection, and that I had let her go back to the town 
volved in troubles and misfortunes, such as the loss of their lands, the ruin of their families, and the desolation of their country; and we shall take care tha
ge. The volunteers, hearing the uproar and seeing the hostile preparations, halted, and to show that their intentions were peaceful, put their shakos on their m
ds, ■nd a pair of pistols and two swords; the hilt of one of these latter was studded with precious stones, a gift from the ill-starred Selim. M. Moulin returne
 what conditions suit you, sell yourself for whatever you will bring; my only reply is, You are a coward and a traitor. But as to the troops, they will not lay 
ook place on Saturday evening■the 11th of November. When the general got back, his first thought was to ask if the commands of the prince had been carried out, 
ch have been displayed by M. Pierre Froment, receiver of the clergy, and his three sons, Mathieu Froment citizen, Jacques Froment canon, Francois Froment advoca
 go forward alone, which I refused to do, because I should have been between two fires. "Upon th■s, curses, threats, and blows reached their height. I was dragg
 out to him, Catinat, in France. The duke, full of the aristocratic ideas to which he was born, found the proposal insolent, and said, "If that is all you have 
ll they came out below Marvejols, where they crossed the river. They now thought themselves out of danger, thanks to this manoeuvre, but suddenly they ■aw anoth
: "Art. 1. Proceedings shall be commenced without delay by Our attorney, and the attorney-general, against the perpetrator of the murderous attack on the person
the Camisard general, he who has assumed the title of Duke of the Cevennes." "I have not assumed that title, monseigneur, only some people call me so in joke: t
es, and clubs, and swearing to exterminate everything, wave■ their weapons above the heads of men who had evidently been torn from their houses and brought to t
. "Alas!" cried Mary, falling on a seat and leaning both arms an the vessel’s stern, "what a sad omen for such a sad voyage!" Then, once more fixing on the rece
etch her. Having set out in the French galleys anchored at the mouth of the Clyde, Mary, after having been hotly pursued by the English fleet, entered Brest har
 their minds again. Nothing could be a greater proof of madness than their hesitation to accept a pardon of which they were unworthy, and which was so generousl
not even disguise, and which showed itself unceasingly in eager questions. One day when she was chatting with James Melville about his mission to her court, Mar
is kingdom. As he knows that this war has been instigated and supported by the enemies of France, he hopes to meet no opposition to his wishes among those of hi
constantly kept alongside the throne, sometimes its support, sometimes its enemy, envying every great house, for greatness made it uneasy, but above all envious
seventeen, Lucrese Guigon by name, distinguished herself amongst the others by her great valour. Not content with encouraging her brethren by the cry of "The sw
rs was summoned to this consultation, and described his plan to the two gentlemen. As he expected, both were opposed to it; however, he tried to bring them over
h they were unworthy, and which was so generously offered by your Majesty. If they do not soon make up their minds, I shall bring them back to the paths of duty
