he present and to watch over her should 
Villars not being able to make up his mi
discipline was maintained. All the men c
gan praying as fervently as if they were
ed through the windows without waiting t
ch followed a massacre was always kept a
d burnt her furniture. They then proceed
m, and hid himself under the bed; but at
ng and flags flying as before. When almo
 upon an adjacent housetop, and climbing
death-agony from his threats, or dead fr
ght in his way. The marquis tried to pus
w everyone that he was eager to seize th
, he glided from bush to bush and rock t
rap in which they, in their turn, would 
hey should all have been demolished with
is broken limbs dangling, to the burning
eady mentioned: the result was that, as 
es were already chosen, and each of thos
treets, we reached his house unmolested;
to be able to get out as soon as it was 
r young girls born in the same year as h
s report to the National Assembly, "alth
d; long live Napoleon!’ A bayonet-thrust
 the roll of drums his voice rose unfalt
roops, and a part of the National Guard 
ew yards away we suddenly heard the shri
 withdrew his opposition. M. d’Aygaliers
es. In the face of this two-fold danger,
ring garrisons. The Camisards recognisin
agoons during the flight. Meantime the r
nce they come, or from the judges of the
chief reliance. The Protestants went abo
 "Henry". Henry I was poisoned, Henry II
rds, who had tried to escape by the door
mon cause during the past year, resolved
rried to greet him, holding out his hand
 gone well with his lieutenant. In conse
 after, this same scene was repeated. Bu
nough nor unfurl it fully. When we got t
ich one of my friends and I had drawn up
h he always kept the key upon him; but t
 at fever heat, the desire of revenge fi
de Villars thought if he could separate 
real fighting took place, the resistance
such an imperative gesture that he stepp
s they were to search, and they all set 
my of the Duc d’Angouleme after the capi
as his letters to Chamillard remained un
cry from the garden of Recollets, and wh
r, which he accepted, and returned to hi
, where alone it seemed possible to brea
, and his assassin has till now successf
"’Gentlemen,’ said he, ’you ought to kno
 to the marechal, whom he found waiting 
of poetry, only too happy never to have 
 threats, to which I paid no attention. 
overnors of provinces. But Roland was mu
rms in the courtyard before: marching ou
he arrival of Death, who according to th
ing up to heaven of songs of praise. It 
as bloody, disfigured, dying, but was ye
ve of their number dead on the field. Th
mville, who knew nothing of Chatelard’s 
to move towards this point by forced mar
otestant prince of the house of Bourbon,
I have forgotten, in describing the Mass
t of sight of his enemies. He now, howev
 baggage. As this infraction of the term
0. All these sentences were carried out 
composed of one battalion of the 13th Re
as to ask that Trestaillons might be set
he could not see, but whose groans and c
ct road which the troops were obliged to
sturbed by these fools." The day after w
ather clasped to the hearts of his dear 
ments, I confess, I was frozen with terr
tions are too much alike to leave room f
arrange the terms of a convention to S.A
pursued the same method in 1704. Meantim
hout religion bearing arms have been gui
for the details of the catastrophe arriv
gh not dangerous, impeded his flight, so
 aides-de-camp remained there motionless
d-bearer, as being the most likely on ac
having been joined by the main body of t
anged without mercy an hour later. A gre
ogether when he admitted that Mary Stuar
, he drew his two pistols from his belt,
eturn of their protector, which took pla
eing amused, drew attention to this anom
ounter; consequently the hundred dragoon
 Again his touch I feel; In work or leis
and uttering no complaints. Boeton, who 
arrive was a Catholic one, and its objec
rothers, sisters, and other relations of
 in each place. "(Signed) "MARECHAL DE M
, while he would take charge of those wh
ms mentioned were Loriol, Bigot, Dumas, 
s, Roland made reply that the deputies w
 I had at one time almost lost all sense
the Huguenots, except the murders. In th
emed to be the only living things about 
s may be seen, the suppression of the re
ueen shuddered; for although her husband
t out for Nimes in the best of spirits; 
 person the different points where M. de
 but the abbe felt convinced that it was
to an effective disposition of the troop
of Avignon came in sight; it was compose
April, about seven o’clock in the evenin
grew so tired that she begged the man wh
ups of Catholics began to form, and as i
bbe, had just caught sight of him, the w
according to the tone in which it is utt
ervice; that he had several times offere
ld hear him cry, "To me, Douglas!" he we
shot, dressed himself, and made a round 
onsult with them. Dalbos appealed for me
e carriage of a friend, a rich landed pr
 tree in each village. "IX. Where no inh
 guard-house which was occupied by soldi
. He said M. Berding had taken it. Meanw
illars was soon relieved; for six days a
 bank, while such fierce conflict was ra
 to convey money to Jean; for Du Serre w
 a small white cross which they wore on 
ely dried blood, made another compact, i
s of the regent. Now, scarcely had she r
in their resolution; but Ravanel and Mos
elations which reigned in appearance bet
done, it will be red with the blood of t
dashed to the window to secure it, but a
men and Cavalier—an enterprise which wou
as King James V set out for France when 
some shots were fired, and two miquelets
or six muskets rested on my breast and a
ls took up the cry, Roland jumped out of
nuary at 2 a. m., and having searched wi
 work, his hoarse voice, his fiery and a
s, so that he soon went among his neighb
 certificates from the commandants or in
rs later, not finding even this fortress
ing on, he darted from the cabinet, foll
or more villages or hamlets are so near 
o gentlemen. As he expected, both were o
imes during the absence of so many Catho
ed on the nearest group, followed by all
he city was at fever heat, and everyone 
for his son. D’Aygaliers had now attaine
of grief and affection that many were sh
r breast and threatened to kill her if s
ometimes its support, sometimes its enem
at the Calquieres, the red-tufts, who st
nt from house to house threatening those
es to Durfort to confer as to the best m
with all his men in review order, and fo
e might then do in their fury. The gener
 Cavalier’s death, his friends advised h
re more fortunate than his comrade; for,
uide whose knowledge of the country was 
her, and arming themselves with everythi
He spurred up to them, passing through t
formed religion, which there has never b
 they might be conveniently massacred to
tters behind. This incomprehensible esca
ive muskets in the guard-house. At two o
ded, and the general of division command
by a coat of mail were it not that a thi
o meet him. At last he went off to St. D
tensely excited, soldiers with fixed bay
o went on his way, preceded by terror, a
ession of our enemies we were quite dest
k, on account of the severe torture to w
e had been making recruits, when this go
spected as if they had been signed "Mare
n the 16th in the garden of the convent 
T—1587* CHAPTER I Some royal names are p
f his triumphal entry into Lyons, and of
e attention. "FROMENT, Captain of Compan
e of things was M. de Baville. He was so
e assassination of Rizzio, she gave birt
etc., etc., have given permission to M. 
d completely forgotten, bequeathing to t
ay to the Esplanade a friend of the cond
the rebels retired behind their fortific
 Napoleon, but open and armed rebellion 
 gone by, and that he would not be answe
y of Nimes. A seditious mob has dared to
the citadel, and carry off the Duke of B
se who proffered it. The next day the du
 thoroughly convinced that what had happ
age of Grouppieres, where of eighty hous
ted the public from using it, as it had 
ernment and public order would be imposs
e first quarter in advance. As there was
eft Nimes with the rank of ambassador, a
d, "If you have only brought me here, si
ners should be released and the exiles r
probation of the nobility, except for a 
yself, dying as I was, to where my dear 
 own importance. Besides, he felt that h
 day was passed in the commission of dee
at first persisted in saying that he had
eached. He lay that night at Langlade, i
f her injuries a few days later. In spit
l came into town ostensibly to buy provi
etween the two parties would produce a s
o late: the servant had recognised him. 
 there being no road available by which 
alteration, which was that the troops, b
posed, the "Cadets of the Cross" vied wi
with her beautiful ashy-fair hair,—[Seve
aggons to that place. On April 15th he w
ll, to which he had dragged himself. "Do
without delay by Our attorney, and the a
 Hardly were they seen than the cry, "Th
my prayer will receive your favourable a
ong with them everyone who could have wi
nts, Farges the silk-weaver, Roquefort t
s offered him hospitality. As he very so
ver them without doing any harm M.M. de 
delivered the blow, which fortunately ha
al, however, was on the alert, and as so
e death coming," till at last the poor w
t entered on his thirty-fifth year, reso
, encouraging officers and soldiers by h
 such haste that they overturned the tab
arrying on secret correspondence with ea
word of command or executing any militar
d gathered round a coffee-house where st
aces of worship was, a measure of pruden
ielded, and the snow-like pallor of her 
cuss those which may be laid down for th
ed to put aside the prejudices arising f
 head of three hundred; Boizeau de Roche
elves. This species of selection apparen
 their only cover from the dragoons duri
the wood of St. Benazet, intending to pa
 his cavalry emerging from a neighbourin
coming to beg for an amnesty for himself
o not doubt you will, knowing your patri
n; but finding that no threats had any e
in a cheerful voice, while a smile lit u
n he had believed, but Vincel, Cappon, B
n he fell among Menon’s grenadiers. With
y, Maison-Fleur, and Brantome placed dai
 years old, head of the powerful family 
ying alternately the white and the trico
hem or not. This insubordination was too
them out of their hands, and by doing so
one of the gates of the town, in order t
ntained suitable positions for ambuscade
aratte was ordered to give fifty muskets
tle, "FROMENT, DESCOMBIEZ, FOLACHER NIME
give passage to gentle words, with a nec
ing day, Monday, at eight o’clock in the
d the same cry, "Long live the king!" Th
saw the motion made by the men as they m
 Paris, without having communicated his 
ester, whose personal worth was besides 
t. Many were incapacitated for service b
with the tokens of Jesus Christ? Why do 
from Paris should go to him and make the
 "Catinat is taken! Catinat is taken!" T
n appeared among the crowd; the processi
d come to meet them. The assurances of d
 going on in Upper Cevennes; and partly 
General de Gilly and Adjutant Lefevre, C
ontrevel. "VIII. The order forbidding th
 Nimes had remained in the governor’s su
en companies only three had joined them.
ral Gilly and Baron de Damas "S.A.R. Mgr
ssible for the one party to forget the p
r, the marechal gave him on the spot a c
 you weep because He has graciously call
age. "IX. Where no inhabitants are found
rn them into ridicule. Consequently, one
e queen’s women, and supposed that if sh
 "to treat with this lieutenant-general 
e thus to anticipate the arrival of Deat
t his religious belief would be in the w
y should be presented to him the next mo
red; for the wind having dropped, when d
l in vain, he gave up hope, and calling 
an, had no sooner regained her power tha
ring the men not to lay aside their arms
it was my duty." "Well," exclaimed M. de
ould have done, and called upon the judg
conduct, to which Vincel had borne high 
h the help of one of his pages, James V 
ounted to her as a crime; the company re
 room and looking out on the courtyard, 
ead of Cavalier, and 1000 livres each fo
articles had been agreed on between Rola
is time with his ancestors, and Mary Stu
lood for the king; this being so, I hope
rose higher, for every day since his arr
biez, Froment, and Folacher remained mas
all sides. Esprit Seguier, feeling that 
es." "The number is excessive, sir. I be
investment was complete, he ordered his 
sh; but M. de La Jonquiere returned that
 learn; as under such circumstances any 
" Saint−Maurice de Vantalon, 14 " " Frez
de it uneasy, but above all envious of t
ntion in order to keep their weapons wer
 her to undertake the journey. Two-third
chief’s body; they were condemned to be 
 those with whom I was continued to yell
lice which he was in the habit of using 
s if drawn by a pencil, eyes continually
ptain, five for each lieutenant, two for
e horses ready, got into the carriage, o
 bearing and our dress narrowly, and the
aught.’" Yes, at this moment, Mary Stuar
II as King of England, Julien was one of
 task; the foundations of such houses ma
cipal officer, was killed on the spot, a
lle about his mission to her court, Mary
s. Such was the mood on which the blood-
cers were late, the order of the, day is
ain entrance. As soon as the four Camisa
he double quick. Catinat judging by the 
nguedoc, who was living at Lunel: "SIR, 
hrough the hall, upsetting two or three 
is was not all that had to be accomplish
the conditions which they had refused on
he king shrugged his shoulders and said,
reinforcements five or six thousand stro
e in question was already drawn up in fi
received Cavalier as if he were still th
hed out into the streets at once, gather
he concourse of people and the enthusias
e citadel of Montpellier. On the way he 
nd praying. The next day, the 22nd April
 time, the harbour was left behind; the 
alled Lavallee to bring Cavalier to Vers
d the distance between the two bodies of
 which they wore both in and out of unif
m Castanet had transferred his command, 
nd he sent word to the marechal and M. d
remont, the last Protestant prince of th
 martyrs, making profession of the new f
As to him," he added, holding up Rizzio’
eir protection. "They took him to the Co
e flag high enough, everyone insisting t
hief, who had at his first assay shown t
ch stories; suddenly I saw a friend runn
reater number were without weapons, for 
s letter that the Camisards had great co
leave his house; and if you receive no r
 harmony no longer existed. The Catholic
rs of the same kind were also intercepte
s, he felt that his services to the king
unately happened that M. de Chamans havi
l die in the religion in which I was bor
rmore, it is His Majesty’s will that tho
ed resistance that their assailants were
 town authorities could give orders to t
upe d’Or," but the ruffians followed him
brought me everything she could think of
oyal orders and created him a duke. On t
e drum, not in the least deterred by the
y of making them do penance for the here
ess you.’" D’Aygaliers returned to the m
d to take advantage of it. So the next d
 There they are!’ "’Who are coming?’ we 
gion, but were to be free to worship God
red yards of the enemy; they fired once,
in her title of granddaughter of Henry V
r eye was the wounded, about thirty in n
, willing to aid the good cause by all o
 been long walled up between the tower D
ach city, town, and village ought to con
, who were coming to join us, and are hi
t, calling out, "Sauve qui petit!" at th
ill me. I said I should do nothing of th
y, I said good-bye to the captain, who w
set out together, and arrived at Nimes o
o believed them all dead, was astonished
en to Edinburgh. At sight of this, Mary 
g the noise, came out of his room, and, 
ew minutes before their pursuers, and th
was executed on the same day as Castanet
or ten years, this to apply, to Catholic
responsibility for those dreadful three 
 and see! CHAPTER IX It was on Saturday 
 escape by a narrow staircase which led 
t at length we grew weary, for such is m
ite the resolution which Cavalier had ta
fided in the clemency of the king for wh
t off, leaving behind a writing nailed t
he line, and another battalion of the 79
f men near a house about half a league d
to the son of Belial!" cried the same vo
y a maid, a nurse, a footman, and the co
ted himself at the palace; but as there 
muster roll being in the hands of M. d’A
 Captain Poul and M. de Dourville, set o
r seized a sword from one of the bystand
ven this fortress safe enough, she remov
ons to fire. Then making a sign with his
urn, while explaining the plan of the gr
he Protestants losing all control over t
re (and who thereby abridged his agony) 
and whether it is worth your while to ge
er to enlist him on their side; for Cava
he holsters when he took possession of M
ing also succeeded in getting away. If w
e Parliament of Languedoc be reestablish
rd, and fixed the assassination of Rizzi
em that he had no doubt of the sincerity
ht to the lieutenant, he came out, and r
t he should be thought, as doubtless he 
y just outside the city, between the gat
the retreat of the garrison, seemed to i
e Camisards at the very moment when they
o save both. "My plan had for sole objec
e present time the name of M. d’Argont i
nce that the band led by Laporte was jus
 effect was produced by the Protestants,
e parts that each must play in this bloo
hey saw M. Marguerite, he said that he h
e, and one at Pompidon, and appointing C
hat he has given you that of governor of
our destination the same evening. "We ha
als made by M. de Villars, the Protestan
he next day by Valette, who had also bee
d him a duke. On the following day he re
 them by saying that all needful measure
religious assemblies are expressly forbi
ht for the king. M. de Villars was still
 had been tremulous a moment before, he 
onfound the sheep with the wolves. In re
o persuade it to disperse, to which the 
e gave a low whine instead of his usual 
sm natural to his age, "but I cannot do 
heir claymores. It was then the turn of 
surrender on condition that liberty of c
 just knocked out the brains of two of o
: 1. That Cavalier and Roland should eac
liers waited a whole year in vain for th
mmanded me to retire, as they did not wa
the entrance to which was on the rampart
 home "after laying down their arms." Bu
say that Murray should remain exiled in 
King of Siam, rejoicing that the executi
om Spain. Carrying a sword and carbine p
 on his family estate. Unfortunately, on
 the entire population. Palmerolle, in c
ter itself the next most powerful. Durin
 them behind some empty barrels, over wh
ced the crowd that his cause was lost. T
gdom, then we beg that our edicts be re-
y accepted—say within two hours—the time
and wound up by saying that if their jus
rt of fire, was quiet; like the wounded 
ring in the wood, and advanced towards t
lest anything should happen to us." The 
 to pick up some news, but in an instant
cause, such cruel weapons against her, w
common impulse, swept forward, the gens 
or the ten thousand only on condition th
ivat de Vallongues, 10 " " Saint−Andre d
t, but liberty of conscience." "My men,"
of the Duc d’Angouleme, who in the cours
 return to their own homes. At two o’clo
hal Brune, although they evaded the just
. "Art. 4. The funds of the army and the
oad, looking for us in every direction, 
assassination of Rizzio, she gave birth 
icism nor devoured by the desire of veng
with his own eyes if the investment was 
m back a messenger post-haste authorisin
a torrent of abuse. "The husband, who un
t off to seek safety in the country. He 
, and succeeded in getting Roland to con
 house of a certain Boeton de Saint-Laur
d them, and a regular battle began. The 
he wrote without any hesitation the foll
ow, and we will catch him on the points 
ed in passing that the baron and Boeton 
out of a besieged city, after a long and
sh him aside with his elbow, but Jean Ca
s if it had been an occasion of public r
nce, promising to bring the young chief 
"Idiot!" said someone else, "to ask ’Qui
n them this consolation. As he resumed h
 "I have to punish a scoundrel called Ra
 from whom, as some said, he looked for 
eparations were complete, Esprit Seguier
l. Fears for the future being thus arous
 unworthy as they were to stand beside t
right; while, on the contrary, Carapden 
 because he believed it to be impractica
ry has preserved the names of the five w
conspirators. His offer was so tempting 
ps early next morning. But during his ab
errible things. He had separated childre
