 Rizzio was disliked by the nobles in proportion as his merits had raised him ab
hat this plot had been hatch■d at the house of a certain Boeton de Saint-Laurent
 people have told you." "I believe what I choose to believe," said Ravanel impat
on to travel by water, but met with an official refusal, and the Duc de Rivier■,
 pale hue, as long as I had the honour of seeing her in France, and Scotland, wh
our sooner than usual, that the bells were not to be rung, and that the organ sh
That in■emnities should be borne by the whole province, and not exacted speciall
me were shot and some cut down with sword or axe; all were killed without except
ld, and, unmoved by the cries and tears of the unfortunate wi■e and the poor lit
wing the state of intense excitement which prevailed in the South, and foreseein
ands over him, he commanded the others to hold back. "God desireth not the death
a declaration of war. When the calm was broken, it was from Marseilles that the 
eized me by the collar and two others took aim at me with their muskets. "If eve
ndval had already enco■ntered the Camisards. These being fatigued had withdrawn 
aid of him t■at he never missed a shot, and that one day being pursued by dragoo
. Nevertheless, Cavalier did not lose heart, but accompanied them on their march
he false reports which the enemies of their repose are spreading abroad. If they
uppress the other. As early as eight o’clock in the morning a guard of gens d’ar
rps of royal troops closed. Then there was everywhere a ha■d-to-hand battle ther
in safety. The fugitive remained the whole day in an isolated farmhouse whose in
 Chamillard would give me his orders." In virtue of this intimation d’Aygaliers 
n going on for more than three months, and the conspirators, in order not to be 
eral times in the midst of the greatest uproar, gave them pause. "They commanded
e to communicate to him, and the minister sent a courier of the Cabinet called L
es II died in it. The Chevalier Saint-George, after having been proclaimed King 
even the lustre of a defeat. His son, Cha■les Edward, after the skirmish at Derb
 the unfortunate inhabitants of La Vannage, and even of places more distant stil
 that Boeton should be put out of misery. This order being conveyed to the execu
with him struck up a psalm tune, and continued singing till they reached Saint-C
ll then had ever produced such an effect ■n the crowd, so that Abbe Massilla, wh
the South. This we learn from one of his own letters to the marquis, which was p
eed, ran after him, firing several shots. He received a wound which, though not 
t it may please His Majesty to permit Cavalier to choose 2000 men, both from amo
 the s■me time, which places were already chosen, and each of those who were to 
rchet, Vignole. Details more or less shocking came to light as to the manner in 
 sent a copy of his demands to M. de Villars, who caused it to be laid before th
esolved to take advantage of it. So the next day he paid a visit to M. de Paratt
cted that the dragoons would revolt against such a humiliation, they submitted, 
ry or pride, began now to call himself "Comte Roland," did not lag behind his yo
Cavalier, the blood mounting to his forehead. "It means," answered Catinat, "tha
e he went out into the streets, and pulling his hat over his eyes and holding a 
ising the truth of this observation, ordered that Boeton should be put out of mi
in uniform, bent down without a thought of danger to listen to what he had to sa
ally lived there, he continued his march on the morning of the 8th. Beyond the v
 marshal reached the point where the road divided, having been warned of the hos
 the cathedral, c■me to his cell to make a last effort to convert him, but he re
rch on the morning of the 8th. Beyond the village of Conans, General Gilly met a
hat many were shaken in their resolution; but R■vanel and Moses seeing the effec
coming nearer; it would therefore have been to court certain death■to advance, s
nsequence of this declaration, it was decided that Cavalier and his regiment sho
ld take the arms of the townspeople, but M. de Villars considered that it would 
 My principle is, that it is better to bring men’s heads back to a right way of 
o divide their assembly into two parts, one of which, was to remain permanently 
sibly to buy provisions, but really to denounce them as being concealed, with tw
st ruth, And take delight in nought S■ve in regretful thought. All that was swee
anything the vineyards of Nimes and La Garrigue de Milhau, took the road to the 
f Hieuzet, whither he hoped his enemies would not venture to follow him. And in 
by another. He found Roland’s bed still warm, and took possession of his clothes
ds, to delay their death-agony a few minutes; finally, keel, yards, masts, all w
 Darnley’s character, lest he had brought them in vain and would not dare to utt
ing up their arms. 5. That those who were abroad might return. 6. That no one sh
es whi■h a waning chivalry was trying to revive came the fatal joust of Tournell
ty dragoons from Fimarcon in the month of November. Of all the chiefs ■ho had tu
ith throughout Scotland. Events were not s■ow to prove that this accusation was 
d up Captain Poul’s sabre and jumped upon his horse. The animal, faithful to its
were still at large, both of whom had formerly served under Cavalier and Catinat
dition that all the Huguenots everywhere lay down their arms, the king will perm
tan■s will therefore be allowed to remain in them. His Majesty, however, desirin
rmed or not. On the 14th June, at four o’clock in the morning, that part of the 
had not been dragged to confession and communion by force, it would have been ea
alise that it was no longer an insurrection they had on hand but a war, and Mend
n a pike, General Brune in disguise,’ and th■s accusation; which had been caught
ion was spreading on every side. A young man of Vieljeu, twenty-six years of age
as doubly painful to me because it was irr■parable. I had lost at one blow not o
ssanes, he chose sixty men from his infantry, and eight horsemen as escort. On c
ng, a■ our enemies have so falsely asserted, but to defend our lives against tho
 swayed by a common impulse, swept forward, the gens d’armes a■d their horses we
 weapons, and hurried to the town hall: There he found two officials of the town
ied by two or three officers, set off at full gallop towards the scene of the tu
ut four of them, had fled; the two who remained were MM. Juillerat and Olivier D
ignon. The marshal reached the town at nine o’clock in the morning, and alighted
 glory of a victory of which he felt assured, not only sent away M. de Foix, but
 the art. At the age of fifteen he had left his father’s house and had gone on f
 at the Mas Arritas, quite near the farm of St. Andeol, had undertaken several t
d Selim. M. Moulin returned across the court, carrying these ■hings. The Damascu
 asked for. So touched was Baron Saint-Chatte by ■he scene (be it remarked in pa
iven to M. de Villars, neglected no argument that he could think of to induce Ro
en’s clothes, who had been seized just as they were about to emigrate. As the ab
d peasants, who once scattered were unable to rally. They were therefore complet
demned to death and one to the galleys; these were the two Alisons, in whose hou
. The militia being thus disappointed, wreaked their vengeance on some passing P
a Gard which was to bear the name of the Nimes Militia: the resolution which aut
massacre finished, the f■natics spread over the castle, supplying themselves wit
body of disciplined troops ready to take the field against his enemies; for not 
issued forth at the head of his soldiers, and charged the rebels with such coura
th, had with the dauphin assumed sovereignty over Scotland, England, and Ireland
l the pleasure that the news he brought had caused her, and which, she said, had
ng, but as soon as Saturday arrived he gave orders to attack the Camisards, and 
uld think we suspected anything, but were merely going for a stroll. This precau
e honours she paid him dead than by the favour she had granted him living. Such 
ir companion, who was related to one ■f them, yielded to her entreaties and rema
 and the offi■ers being annoyed at this neglect, indulged in reprehensible exces
t, not having worked for money, he had ■oped for a better reward; as far as mone
gates, thus cutting off all chance of retreat from their comrades. ■n the event;
an of tact and a lover of justice, and desired above all things to bring a right
face, threatening but self-controlled. But let there be no mistake: there was no
oman before being queen—she pa■doned. But this kindness only increased Chatelard
charged also at a gallop, falling on the flank of the Catholics. In this charge,
had remained in the carriage until then, now alighted, and asked to be shown to 
rds of the enemy; they fired once, killing several, then turned round and retrea
kissed it on both cheeks, and went through the ordeal as if it were a religious 
 the plague in 1720. All these sentences were carried out with the utmost rigour
y escaped with torn clothes and his white hair covered with dust and blood. The 
caire that Nimes had sent forth her troops on this expedition. Seeing that Taras
orced them to retreat. Thereupon the governor, whose garrison was too small to l
ook place at this second interview, as follows. "His Majesty," says he, "receive
es-de-camp, he regained the "Palais■Royal," the doors of which were opened to hi
ple thought they recognised in the man who carried her head impaled on a pike, G
s have sent to La Vannage and La Gardonninque to ask you for reinforcements, and
the capitulation was carried into effect. On the 16th April, at eight o’clock in
abling Cavalier to complete the organisation of a magnificent troop of cavalry. 
plied that it was a problem to which he had given much thought, but without ever
es sufficiently mediocre, was o■ birth too inferior to aspire to the hand of the
, as he had promised, he pointed out several houses in the district of Sainte-Eu
ed them such prolonged agony. Pointu was condemned to death, in his absence, at 
his religion provided everyone remained quietly at home. 7. That indemnities sho
killed, the twelfth made prisoner, and he himself■barely escaped with a severe w
Poul awaited them, he issued forth at the head of his soldiers, and charged the 
 learned that besides the door by which they hoped to effect an entrance, the mi
imand he had received to the presence of the queen’s women, and supposed that if
 mercy; but we should, Monseigneur, regard ourselves as happy, if H■s Majesty, m
r to prevent the rebels from depending on him any more; in this town he was to o
rs, he published the following proclamation: "The king having been informed that
se, in order to establish the fact, to cite the depositions of three royal volun
ent with my officers and my corps to Saint-Jean-des-Anels. We marched towards Uz
 and, making a merit of this to Elizabeth, she cast her eyes on a relation of th
te d’Artois, Mgr. le Duc d’Angouleme, Mgr. le Duc de Berry, Mgr. le Prince de Co
cumstances; so, when he got up on a bench to harangue the populace, cries arose 
de the windows of the rooms where the marshal was writing. Some of these dashed 
also showed himself to be a gallant soldier; wherever there was danger there was
 sent him by foreigners for distribution, and that several persons of still grea
lour, barrels of wine, casks of brandy, quantities of chestnuts and potatoes; an
gnorance of this proclamation, we order it to be publicly read and posted up in 
nts in the cradle, remained indoors; for the Huguenots, who had long looked on C
nnox and his son to go to the Scotch court, reserving it to herself, if matters 
ntendant to admit no foreigner or inhabitant of any other province into Languedo
 the remains of her family, dragged them out of their coffin■ and scattered them
t forced, to become standard-bearer, as being the most likely on account of his 
 set at liberty within six weeks from the date of this petition. ’Granted. "3. T
eeing a single Camisard in the streets; one of the soldiers answered that they w
so a body of men, inured to danger and fatigue, and capable of any undertaking;—
, in contempt of the constitutional chart■r, which while it recognises the Catho
e to correct. I begged His Majesty to tell me what the fault was, and I■should t
 of■icers, be available for this purpose, but also those troops which were at th
lot was not woven with such secrecy but that something of it transpired; and Riz
oners should be made, the Marechal de Tallard, who was a prisoner of war in Engl
nt a positive order to the president of the Consistory to open both places of wo
r; Rougier, an armourer who was found guilty of having repaired the muskets of t
the assault on the barracks a certain individual had fired out of a certain hous
od, and although a Catholic, had never received any harm from them. She occupied
er to surrender or to leave the country. On the 8th October the marechal issued 
ay that she would have liked to be a man, to pass her days on horseback, her n■g
king, and moreover the silence of the guns led them to think that the rebels had
der and ball, they formed eight companies each fifty strong, composed of townsme
 "Cavalier, commander of the troops sent by God"; its purpose was to prove by nu
d none the less in their determination, till at last the abbe threw his arms rou
o destroying everything belongin■ to the new converts from Beaucaire to Nimes. T
the palace; but■as there was a court ball, he could not see the queen, and conte
might well part with the copy; but Elizabeth would on no account consent. This l
heir creatures, took a carriage at six o’clock in the morning, and, setting out 
to the Reformed religion; so that, furious at the queen’s giving such a proof of
ion unnecessary. De l’Estrade threw himself on the nearest of the three, and, wi
 of which was a vineyard. We crossed the road and crept under the vines, which c
ever name they may have been levied, will return to their homes■ after laying do
e garden, ran across it at full speed, and regaining his room at the hotel, thre
marriage, since the Queen of Scotland not only chose an Englishman for husband, 
 and ■iked, so leaving the rest of his troops at Massanes, he chose sixty men fr
onstrances, of which I ■ope I have now heard the last, I have received numberles
il in the town. As a good citizen■and a true patriot, I entreat you to send an o
M. d’Acqueville, the second in command of the marines; and he offered his questi
k in the morni■g a guard of gens d’armes was stationed at the doors of the meeti
 the messengers in person, to renew his invitation viva voce. Unfortunately, at 
d of arms which we have just related, he learned that a horrible murder had been
estore this province to that state of peace which has been disturbed by these fo
 full speed, and regaining his room at the hotel, threw himself on the floor, wh
hem between Marvejols and a mill called the Moulin-du-Pont. Seeing the road clos
sent by representing to them that there could be nothing dishonourable in an act
a■ier and me with the purpose of entering your town in a few days; however stron
lling into disorder, first lost ground and then fled, pursued by Catinat and his
oice which sent him away recalled him■ and at the summons Cincinnatus left his p
name of La Grandeur, who had accompanied Ravanel. Ravanel withdrew, supporting h
 by the queen, who, in a riding habit, with pistols at her saddle-bow, wished to
d, insulted, and roughly■treated because of my opinions, had indeed found safety
 wines. These latter suited him so well that he never lef■ the table without bei
rty of conscience were granted to all. The young Cevenol, who was unaccustomed t
able you to serve me better.’ His Majesty added that I ought to seek instruction
 best we could." "After the capitulation of the Duc d’Angouleme I found myself,"
 mayor, the second the president of the Consistory, and the third a member of th
se and his would be to take the first opportunity of gaining the frontier and le
of Lasalle, one of the places granted to the houseless villagers as an asylum, a
nde, "it is unfortunately not in my power to grant your demand, but I advise you
with him, and Comte de Payre, who brought fifty-five companies of militia from G
ifty-two privates—in all, thirteen hundred and forty-nine men, forming eighty co
opped at Sommieres, whence he could observe the movements of Cavalier. Cavalier,
e walls, turned his guns on them and fired, less in the hope of inflicting injur
 the said order shall be affixed to a wall or tree in each village. "IX. Where n
’Angouleme arrived: two proclamations calling the citizens to arms signalised hi
ouglas of Morton, chancellor of the kingdom, consented to act as chief. This is 
f the newly born. These latter were often brought to him at night to be baptized
he marechal gave him carte blanche. In the evening Menon set out with two hundre
 we shall soon meet in heaven." A few moments later, the stake, being burnt thro
 Baron d’Aygaliers, two apparently insurmountable difficulties, for it could onl
or soldiers in ambush; but M. de La Jonquiere returned that the only thing of im
 happened during the Hundred Days: the two parties remained face to face, threat
hand to a traitor." Cavalier gave a cry of rage, and advancing on Catinat, raise
liments, and ceased altogether when he admitted that Mary Stuart was not her equ
n which he crossed the river Gardon, leaving behind him on the battlefield twent
n co■dition that they take the oath of fidelity to the king. "4. That the Parlia
ure, round which the crowd danced; as if it had been an occasion of public rejoi
f Duke of the Cevennes." "I have not assumed that title, monseign■ur, only some 
cannot conform to our religion, why do they not worship God in their own way at 
h they could arrest t■e principal conspirators. His offer was so tempting and hi
aillons, ran into a house in which there was a venerable priest called Cure Bonh
e same time, which places were already chosen, and each of those who ■ere to tak
luence. He thought that in ridding himself of Rizzio he could not fail to gain t
 in due course, taking with him the rest of t■e royal volunteers, and leaving th
th the weight of a reign of sixty years, was summoned in his turn to appear befo
onsider myself most unfortunate in that I have■been able to accomplish nothing d
 Ravanel had gone away, but Roland had debated with them at some length, so they
ve thousand persons, singing, weeping, and praying, were gathered together, and 
ts condition and appearance, the first corps excepted. This■corps was commanded 
fuge, food, stores, ammunition, or other assistance of any kind, under any prete
its officer, crossed a clearing in the wood, and advanced towards the farmhouse,
head of the finest army that ever a king of Scotland had raised. Darnley assumed
to a debate, and he invited us to come often to see him. We enjoyed ourselves so
ar openly. Two red flags have been carried about the streets,■and municipal offi
en shouts of "To the Rhone! to the Rhone!" resounded on all sides. A police offi
 the butt ends of their ■uskets and the flat of their swords until I advanced. O
een so long closed, in present circumstances, and in face of the fact that the c
 to the command of the Avennes, of the principality of Orange, in order to guard
 Rhone to the other where it was two hundred yards wide. And lastly, he cou■d th
ttempt rather than remain a prisoner for life. He succeeded in getting ■ossessio
nt■on. "The officers will retain their swords; the troops of the line who form p
 if he could separate Roland from his troops as he had ■eparated Cavalier, his p
r within reach of bullets the defeated troops were still pursued by songs of vic
as reached. He lay that ■ight at Langlade, in order to rejoin his troops early n
metimes its support, sometimes its enemy, envying every great house, for greatne
moment the sixty men in ambush to the right opened fire, while the thirty horsem
town, who, one after another, reached his house, and brought us news ■f all that
t was you who carried her head on a pike, but your head will be impa■ed on somet
frequent journe■s to the forest without reserve. At first she made use of all ki
in peace or to obtain Christian burial, he declared that anyone who should open 
tead of attracting us by gentleness and good example, they ceaselessly subject u
ked beside her to allow her to lean on his shoulder. He looking roun■ and seeing
n each. But the mountains had swallowed up the fanatics, and nothing was ever kn
hat then I should one day recognise what a great benefit he desired to bring wit
different from yours—a thing which could neither have been foreseen nor prevente
Roland raised his two hands to Heaven, as if to call down the vengeance of God u
death, but a witness presented himself who testified that the little fellow was 
tter advantage. "However, at this point the militiamen with the red tufts made t
ee hundred, have assembled on the bridge over the Durance, and ar■ preparing to 
h on the face of the cliff which rose up to our right; to our left flowed the Ga
us Camisard was car■ied to Milhaud, where his wounds were bandaged, and himself 
day by ■alette, who had also been betrayed by some peasants whom he had asked fo
ith him to serve, in case of need, as a weapon. A sentinel who was near cried, "
t I might concert measures with them; for the nobles in that part of the country
in the Cevennes in Languedoc, enjoin on the inhabitants of the town of St. Andre
 accustomed■to ride in the Turkish manner—that is, with very short stirrups, so 
wn. Laporte had just returned from La Vaunage, where he had been making recruits
ody of men, inured to danger and fatigue, and capable of any undertaking;—beside
 no more faithful subjects than themselves, and would henceforth be ready to she
ve hundred soldiers immediately stole into an inner courtyard, where they placed
h ■ike a pig. On coming out of this house they met Jacques Clas, and shot him in
mpany deserted in a body, and, crossing Mont B■lliard, entered Porentruy, and to
ful, allowed himself to be taken to the guard-room. He had been there about an h
g been promised her life, she revealed everything. M. de Lalande put himself at 
law. After an anxious wait of three hours, we saw him coming. I was about to run
ellor of the kingdom, consented to act as chief. This is the second time since t
m at the head of his men, carbine in hand. However, these scientific preparation
ier saw that arguments and promises were of no avail, he raised his voice in ang
Upon this he replied, that although the Catholics seldom kept a promise made to 
 Thus reinforced, they were able to bar the way to all who passed and subject th
ave never done anythin■ to break it. If those who have caused the frightful conf
 suffer in return everything they inflicted on the Huguenots, except the murders
oung girl who had taken refuge in the town of Lasalle, one of the places granted
outing Traitor! he put spurs to his horse and went off at full gallop, followed 
 a neighbouring village, and was on his way home when he fell among Menon’s gren
ent of troops arrived just in time to prevent their setting the building on fire
 order to give an idea of the tolerance of the Protestants, and to bring upon th
 at once. Sainte-Chatte told him that the principal body was that which was befo
o the prisoner, "is this man to die?" Esprit Seguier fell on his knees and cover
s later it turned out that not only was the merchant no Bonapartist, but that hi
." "May God grant it!" said Cavalier. "He is my witness that we desire peace bey
hey came from the weaker party. On the 27th March six men met in a barn; dined t
at Darnley himself, wrapped in a great cloak, awaited them at the postern by whi
 pursuing Jean Cavalier, occupied himself in reviving Isabeau. As it was, howeve
ot through the Loulle gate, followed by a second carriage in which were his aide
nevois was consulted, under renewed promises of safety for himself, as to the be
he never could make up her mind to leave France, as such a step was surrounded b
isards if they refused to submit), or else; by laying down their arms and submit
 were all ■eeping round him. When he reached the platform he laid himself of his
 no longer heard since her exile in Scotland; she let herself be deceived by the
solation. As he resumed his march the prisoner set them the example by beginning
 a few days since he had learned with much regret that their religious services 
unately for her honour, Mary, always more the woman than the queen, while, on th
were their only cover from the dragoons during the flight. Meantime the royalist
umult. He had passed through the narrow streets which led to the meeting-house b
 men led by Forges and Roquefort had sepa■ated themselves from the throng, and b
 the white cockade! Before we are done, it will be red with the blood of the Pro
m at once or later, should their private affairs need time for arrangement. "Art
in himself and his men. In fact, since the incident co■nected with the naval off
en several times, at the request of Jean’s father, Jerome, to convey money to Je
hepherd. "Indeed," says Cavalier in his Memoirs, "the loss which I had just sust
lose by, at the head of his company, to take eight dragoons and make a reconnais
 place of M. de Montrevel, who had fallen under the king’s displeasure and was a
His plan was to take up position■with the greater part of his men on the other s
t a safeguard, took us each by an arm, and we passed the barrier without anyone 
 his authority. Next day General Gilly received further despatches from General 
r of Alais, and of Baroness Arnaud-Wu■meser (for the abbe administered the estat
rders." In virtue of this intimation d’Aygaliers went next day to the minister’s
r of bullets. Convinced by this, as he was well acquainted with the character of
he rebels. He had received intelligence that the band led by Laporte was just ab
rmed. M. de Vassiniac, major in the Fimarcn regiment, accompanied them with fift
soldiers, troubled the pea■e of old Phocea; no revolution ever took place with s
lande, who began his examination by threatening that he would have her hanged if
Fondmorte, which formed a pass between two valleys. He ordered out his Spanish ■
nt, seeing the general emotion, hastened to call M. de Baville’s attention to th
 fortress safe enough, she removed her to an island in the middle of the Lake of
sary. De l’Estrade threw himself on the nearest of the three, and, without using
sin on my■part, and I deeply repent it. I must add, however, that whenever anyon
a strange expression that it was clear that something terrible was about to happ
ack of her chair. The queen shuddered; for although her husband was smiling when
 followed close on that of their chief’s body; they were condemned to be broken 
the way he encountered his wife and his son, who were going to the■latter town t
 find there—heaps of grain, sacks of flour, barrels of wine, casks of■brandy, qu
itted, under the command of such an illustrious and noble-minded general as your
aving under him Captain Poul and M. de Dourville, set out from Cavayrac on the 1
fe, brought on an endemic fever, which incapacitated for work many soldiers and 
their lives in his service. But, being informed that instead of keeping the enga
at the three-quarter of an hour which the spectacle had■lasted was much too brie
 spokesman by the villa■ers. From words they came to deeds: the miquelets tried 
agreed upon between the a■ove-mentioned plenipotentiaries the 8th day of April i
ave a good look at the singular man who had maintained a struggle against two ma
ed at Calais, where two galleys were waiting to take her to Scotland, one comman
like a wild boar driven to bay. Suddenly loud shouts behind him announced that t
hing in my experience. It was midnight. I was working beside my wife’s bed; she 
was present, "for which we have fou■ht. If I were alone, sir, I should give myse
mongst others with a fencing-master who gave him lessons, and a dragoon who taug
 it was of a kind that he understood an■ liked, so leaving the rest of his troop
l the assistance they needed. Mary returned to Edinburgh delighted at the succes
d the hootings of the inhabitants. When they rejoined Cavalier and made their re
hi■ officers, step by step, to the barracks, and having got inside the gates, cl
oof, but before they reached it Pierre was wounded in the hip and fell; but From
y deeds, Cavalier took the chateau of Serra■, occupied the town of Sauve, formed
bine proportioned to his size, the boy addressed the flying men. "Where are you 
," said Ravanel. Cavalier burst out laughing. "It seems to astonish you," said R
gave them pause. "They commanded me to retire, as they did not want to kill me. 
cies of building in short, disappeared before the swift advancing flames as wild
kun had been for four years forgotten in retirement, or rather in exile, when th
ief dependence on ■orce, I felt that they could only be met by force; for then a
well as you can, for the dragoons will soon be on you," he set his horse’s head 
, in orde■ to find out where he was, and saw, to his surprise, that one of the m
s. At the bridge of Quart the villagers of Redressan and Marguerite joined them.
e to collect themse■ves, she shut the door again, and vanished like a passing bu
yed, some of the men going to surround the house, others setting out on a search
e head of imposing forces, at the ■ight of which they desisted. An apparent calm
lly, such as consoling the dying or caring for the wounded, he acted quite openl
who was his head prophet’s father. As he thus moved about he was preceded by two
ng as the king m■ved and stopped, and answering the questions which His Majesty 
ants greeted it with cries of joy, and indeed the promised liberty gave them bac
 and fifty Reformers wer■ assembled in a mill at Carmes, outside Nimes, singing 
hand, facing the Camisards, who surrounded them. He spurred up to them, passing 
who was riding close by, at the head of his company, to take eight dragoons and 
as to go, under his command, to Spain, and fight for ■he king. M. de Villars was
s, which were followed by no excess. "Bu■ the day was not quite finished before 
er our recent experiences, for one of them wore a white cockade, the second a tr
ich case they shall declare the same to the commandant, the Sieur de Montrevel, 
who had business to attend to or who desired to visit their relations. The follo
 on the point of leaving the town, but hearing the shot had turned back, believi
er such an outrage quietly. He walked straight up to the marquis and stood r■ght
. This proposition was so clear and promised to produce such useful results, tha
 to impart to him an■ to him alone. The duke was not very anxious for a tete-a-t
ked out. The poor wretch was lying face downwards writhing in his blood; the ass
d succeeded to the lively and animated flow of words among her guests since the 
y; but we should, Monseigneur, regard ourselves as happy, if His Majesty, moved 
attack the Camisards, and the next day led a considerable body of troops to Carn
 Mme. Noguies had been broken int■, the furniture destroyed, the owners killed i
raight towards them. As■soon as they caught sight of him they halted, and Ravane
was the very man to take a leading part in the coming struggle. "He was," says P
ent over him. He was bloody, disfigured, dying, but was yet alive, uttering dism
 through the village of Saint-Just we met once more our armed peas■nts. But this
king than to cut them off, and to be regarded as a weak man rather than as a blo
n all our misfortunes we were never without resources; but from the moment it go
as being said, and at a single bound fall upon the guests. Darnley left them ■n 
had ever heard, and for a few moments, I confess, I was frozen with terror. But 
ey gathered together in great numbers, mounted on asses, and with drawn swords b
a cupboard, when the queen was already in bed, was placed under arrest. The mome
20. All these sentences were carried out with the utmost rigour. Thus, as may be
ivision and Commander-in-Chief of the first corps of the Imperial Army, being mo
e, had him instructed in the first principles of the art. At the age of fifteen 
s, and before the conspirators had had time to collect themselves, she shut the 
he latter presented him to the Marechal de Villars, to whom■he showed his petiti
fficient ammunition for his purposes. Lastly, he did something which in the eyes
dier, who without training became a great general by means of his natural gifts;
sant, began life as a shepherd at the Sieur de Lacombe’s, a citizen of Vezenobre
 my pockets to see if I had nothing on me which I could use as a weapon, but I h
nial. Consequently, as Rizzio was disliked by the nobles in proportion as his me
p to them, whilst we hid the other in our shoes; then as we were passing we stuc
e them for a public execution. These three men were Nouvel, a parishioner of Via
re of a highwayman’s finger on the trigger of a musket, is no easy task; but all
rtake no other duty except at the express request of the Town Council. Although 
quis de Lalande at Alais, or to M. de Menon at Saint Hippolyte, or to the ■omman
 and head met; and never once during the completion of this atrocious performanc
s, or dead from his justice, by carrying them, dead or dying, to some refuge in 
the famous pitchforks belonging to the company of Froment. He fell, but the assa
ould regulate the warmth of his reception by everyone else. M■t thus by looks of
sight of a group, composed of ten naval officers; standing close together and ba
ioning had taken so much time that when the stake and the scaffold were ready it
nds of the prince had been carried out, and when he heard that they had not, w■t
yde, Mary, after having been hotly pursued by the English fleet, entered Brest h
, hel■ a council of war, and it was decided that an attack should be made forthw
of extraordinary strength and dexterity. He could throw over the Loulle gate a 4
 young man came out, who took tender leave of a woman on the threshold. The hand
 give his consent until it was too late, for Napoleon had already reached the mo
lier that he desired to speak with him on important business. They met near Andu
ntly. All obeyed, for the house of Cordon was already so powerful that each fear
misards proceeded to Cayla and Vauvert, into which the■ entered, destroying the 
ing like ourselves safety in the country, told us that the rioting, far from cea
m? It was a slight thing when the Protestants inflicted death alone, unaccompani
ortion of his life in exile. James II died in it. The Chevalier Saint-George, af
roment advocate, inhabitants of Nimes, we shall henceforward regard them and the
oops of which the garrison was composed had resolved to unite in giving a banque
cts were as much respected as if they had been signed "Marechal de Villars." On 
 to Uzes, while Cavalier rejoined his comrades. Meantime d’Aygaliers, who, as we
stice take its course: Chatelard was led to execution. Arrived on the scaffold, 
ng them with tenderness." Cavalier opened his mouth to reply, but the intendant 
otally wanting. The barracks being thus carried by assault, a horrible massacre 
troops, had had assigned to them, they found three men sleeping on mattresses la
d to prevent it, that the young chief began to feel his self-confidence and cou■
ard on all sides cries of "Kill! Kill!" and "To arms! To arms!" Grandval and h■s
and saw that his predecessors had felt such great contempt for the heretics that
od relations whi■h reigned in appearance between Mary and Elizabeth. As to Bothw
 by M. de Albenas, at the head of seven or eight hundred persons of the Reformed
ome of the men going to surround the house, others setting out on a search for t
 cafe by degrees to the Catholics, being determined to keep the peace whatever i
the hall, the other in the dining-room, and found door and windows already smash
ss, Cavalier did not lose ■eart, but accompanied them on their march to Saint-Es
he marshal asked for writing materials, which Moulin brought, whereupon the mars
 and the love of their country which have been displayed by M. Pierre Froment, r
 by anything of which my conscience did not approve, but that I was grateful for
ee to worship God in their own houses according to their consciences." These agr
who had found a fresh horse by the wayside standing beside its dead master. He a
me by his junior, and that he had registered a ■ow in Heaven that nothing would 
ived orders to■leave Paris and rejoin his regiment at Macon. He therefore set ou
asant expr■ssion, and winning voice. He soon came back in his mayor’s robes, wea
n warmly pressed him to try it before rejecting it for ever, and in the end M. d
rnor sent for MM. de Lalande and de Baville, in order to consult them as to the 
the Reformers through the spectacles of Madame de Maintenon," told d’Aygalie■s t
airs, which necessitated her presence in the heart of her possessions, she did n
 soldiers with their officers into the Cevennes by way of Dauphine or by water, 
ke a rebel, but according to his new rank in the French army. On the 21st June h
e, who at once overwhelmed my wife with a torrent of abuse. "The husband, who un
mpanies, with sixteen captains, sixteen lieutenants, a sergeant-major, and a sur
from Boeton, they tore themselves away, Boeton commanding them to pray for M. de
 great noise was heard in the queen’s room. Huntly, Athol, and Bothwell, who, we
them. "Art. 2. The general officers, superior staff officers and others of all b
e had only time to ejaculate, "Have mercy on me, O God, according to Thy great m
en wanted to strike him; but her anger calmed down by little and little at the a
ges of Salieges, Rampon, Ruas, Chavrie■es, Tourgueselle, Ginestous, Fressinet, F
r in arm-chairs without undressing, while our host, M______ and myself took turn
age, the name of which I do not know, M. de Vogue and the other officer, told us
 from near Beaucaire, M■ Vialla from the canton of Lasalle, and M. Puech of the 
lied round it with confidence and sincerity. The Empire followed, with its incli
most lost all sense of religion, unt■l God, taking pity on me, had opened my eye
to beg him to send them M. d’Aygaliers, and to M. d’Aygaliers to request him to 
ng the Imperial Government, was produced and passed along the ranks, causing suc
hin a quarter of a league of the mill, La Valla, who was in command of the exped
Lord! how long shall the wicked triumph? How long shall innocent blood be shed? 
h was■carried down the river Rhone, while six hundred of the skilful mountain ma
leeding profusely. On the other hand, the Camisards perceiving at some distance 
ght towards Saint-Come and Clarensac; lastly, he himself set out, as he had said
s who had, by the persuasion of their chiefs, been induced to lay down their arm
two wounded men, and a report was drawn up by Antoine Robin, advocate and magist
n, and that then I should one day recognise what a great benefit he desired to b
resenting to them what seemed to him to be cogent reasons for its adoption. But 
ore a cross-belt from which depended his sword, and on his head a gold-laced hat
nfirmed in the title which he had arrogated to himself, by acclamation. Such was
Next day it was found on■the sandy shore at Tarascon, but the news of the murder
een of Scotland not only chose an Englishman for husband, but was marrying into 
f the firing. Hardly had Cavalier effected the desired junction of his forces th
ictim escaped. A beautiful young girl of sixteen was saved by the marshal’s vale
assed to that for her mother, and from mourning for her mother to that for her h
e hindering others from attending our meetings to worship God: the conditions of
ed, however, to retreat. "In leaving, I warned them that they were about to brin
ried in vain to rally his men, M. de Vergetot, surrounded by a few Irish, was fo
t the end of the Cours and opposite the glacis of the fortress, so that the garr
 then turned round and retreated. When a third of the way, back had been covered
s V, a dislike of ceremony and the need of liberty, had invited to supper with h
om devotion to the cause than to avenge a private wrong, and on many occasions h
the place,—retreated to some distance from the cave, as it was of the utmost imp
