no kingdoms, they made few discoveries, they destroyed no fleets, yet they were the first pioneers on a path on which thereafter were to be many such achievemen
d the night with his men in ambush until the signal should sound. The burghers of the town were mostly in church; none were dreaming of an attack, as men rarely
ng to accept this advice. But the king replied by repeating that repose was indispensable to him. Without inquiring for the present whether the project of eleva
landers with their own cowardice. Scarcely a moment passed before Van der Noot's whole regiment was running away as fast as the troopers, while the Scots on the
at every hazard. On the question of peace or war itself the republican diplomatists were often baffled as to the true intentions of the English Government. "As 
 denunciation from the pulpit of Plancius have long since mingled with empty air and been forgotten, but his services in the cause of nautical enterprise and ge
g burned or hanged at the slightest movement in such a direction. The popular force in the course of the political combinations of centuries seemed at last to h
was not shared by the rest, and he went back to his truckle-bed, feeling that a brief repose was necessary for the heavy work which would soon be upon him. At m
not a Protestant league. Henry of Navarre could no longer be the chief of such an association, although it was to Protestant powers only that he could turn for 
d be easier to accomplish. Thus on the last day of 1596, Philip, whose fleet sent forth for the conquest of Ireland and England had been too crippled to prosecu
of the seventeenth centuries. While Barendz and Heemskerk were attempting to force the frozen gates which were then supposed to guard the northern highway of co
as the sharpest and most unscrupulous politician in the obedient Netherlands. Villeroy had conducted every intrigue of France during a whole generation of manki
but very decidedly allowed to return as it came; but the most persistent in schemes of interference for the purpose of putting an end to the effusion of blood i
s were deputed accordingly as inspectors, who reported that resistance was useless. The place accordingly capitulated at once. Here, again, was an improvement o
mbered half as many. Here was a populous nation in a favoured land, but the foundation of all wealth was sapped by a perverted moral sentiment. Labour was estee
 was so firmly convinced of the truth of this theory, that he volunteered to take the lead in the first expedition. Many were the fantastic dreams in which even
 to command, having never learned to obey. The poorer Spaniards were most honourably employed perhaps--so far as their own mental development was concerned--whe
enry as a counterpoise to his own most oppressive and most Catholic protector, and of breaking up the great convert's alliance with the heretic queen and the re
 it was time to make it known. Accordingly--the two being all ears--Richardot observed that what he was about to state he said with fear and trembling. He knew 
erman Highland and the German Netherland God of wrath who had decreed the extermination of all unbeliever Had industry been honoured instead of being despised H
stant powers accompanied. Exactly at the same epoch Philip was again preparing an invasion of the queen's dominions. An armada of a hundred and twenty-eight shi
hthood. The chief officers of the squadron were the knights-commanders, and the most deserving of the crew were the knights-brethren. The members of the fratern
s would make great disturbance among the heretics, as one of the conditions of the king's absolution by the pope was supposed to be that he should make war upon
ng it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received
n Rheinberg and upon Rees entirely without result and then disbanded itself ingloriously. Meantime the admiral had withdrawn from German territory, and was amus
ng him information which it was of so much importance for his eternal welfare to possess. His first thought was to request the papal nuncio, Gaetano, to despatc
ly a step from which, without eternal vigilance, a falling back is very easy; and that here, more than in other lands, ignorance of the scientific and moral tru
 to inspect the contents. Maddened by hunger, and their keen scent excited by the salted provisions, and by the living flesh and blood of these intruders upon t
t best a fallacious guide for estimating the comparative wealth--of individuals or of nations at widely different epochs. The dollar of Philip's day was essenti
e of man had ever beheld; but it was universally admitted that an opening, either by strait or sea, into the desired Indian haven would reveal itself at last. T
n who was afterwards destined to achieve an immortal name in the naval history of his country, Jacob Heemskerk, was supercargo of the Amsterdam ship. In obedien
in the States in a campaign against Cardinal Albert, as to hope for the same good offices from Elizabeth and Henry. Having received exactly the answer which he 
tory, and enable ourselves, however dimly and feebly, to cast the horoscope of younger nations. Human history, so far as it has been written, is at best a mere 
that which, in the immortal words of our Declaration of Independence, asserts the right of every human being to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; but
en used, and in the gentlest and most benignant manner signified his thanks to them for thus removing all doubts from his mind, and for giving him information w
ghastly visage that the faithful friend of Henry instantly imagined some personal disaster to his well-beloved sovereign. "Is the King dead?" he cried. Being re
failure. Yet it was in the hands of great men, both on shore and sea. Maurice, Barneveld, and Maalzoon had personally interested themselves in the details of it
 as stipulated in the league, but that if Henry would recommence active operations, a States' army of nine thousand foot and two thousand horse should at once t
selves as usual on abstruse points of theology, and devoting their serious hours to banquetting, deep drinking, and the pleasures of the chase. The jeremiads of
downs between forts Isabella and St. Albert. On the 1st July he resumed his march, and passing a bridge over a small stream at a place called Leffingen, laying 
 the ancient races who dwelt in either peninsula of India. He studied the natural history, the botany, the geography of all the regions which he visited. Especi
reat clearness its dangerous and possibly fatal character; assuring the Staten that, within a fortnight after the expedition had begun, the archduke would follo
e which has the main PG search facility: www.gutenberg.org. This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how to make donations to the P
for years. De Bethune had hardly lost himself in slumber when he was startled by Beringen, who, on drawing his curtains in this dead hour of the night, presente
 prepared for its reception. "Mass being performed," said the king, "the prelate shall place me in the grave which shall be my last house until I go to my etern
hose active military operations by which so much misery had been inflicted on the unfortunate inhabitants of that border land. There was a slight attempt on the
 Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed: This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States a
the virtue of an army, and to sweep away the best-considered schemes of a general, had spread through Ernest's entire force. So soon as the demi-cannon had disc
nfederacy? It was not a Protestant league. Henry of Navarre could no longer be the chief of such an association, although it was to Protestant powers only that 
 straightway to the chancellor, and concluded the same bargain in the council chamber which had been rejected by De Bethune, with the slight difference that the
about a peace between him and Philip, if Henry would agree to make it alone, and he would so manage it that the king's name should not be mixed up with the nego
m. The queen asked Caron what he thought of the project. How could that diplomatist reply but with polite scorn? Not a year of such an armistice would elapse, h
 won the battle, was undoubtedly Marcellus Bax. Maurice remained an hour or two on the field of battle, and then, returning towards the village of Turnhout, sum
 the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. 1.F. 1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright res
s, the polar bears, on the floating ice, on the water, or on land, were constantly occurring, and were the only events to disturb the monotony of that perpetual
pt from taxation. Need more be said to indicate the inevitable ruin of both government and people? And it was over such a people, and with institutions like the
 man, so far as known, ever reached the latitude of eighty degrees before. This land was hitherto unknown." The scientific results of this ever-memorable voyage
er of the States' army, all well-paid, well-clad, well-armed, well- disciplined veterans, had been collected in this place of rendezvous and were ready to embar
vilization. Plancius and Dr. Francis Maalzoon--the enlightened pensionary of Enkhuizen--had studied long and earnestly the history and aspects of the oceanic tr
nd disgraceful failure. Its opening scene was the treaty of Catean Cambresis, by which a triumph over France had been achieved for him by the able generals and 
victory reached them to seize this vital point, the doom of the archduke would have been sealed. Nothing then could have saved him from capture. Fortunately esc
 the sins of their forefathers. If history does not teach this it teaches nothing, and as the rules of morality; whether for individuals or for nations, are sim
icent visions. The original designation of the Flemish Islands, derived from their first colonization by Netherlanders, was changed to Azores by Portuguese mari
thin the jaws of death. The glory of Thermopyla; might have hung for ever over that bridge of Leffingen. It was now a pass of infamy, perhaps of fatal disaster.
trophies of the conqueror. Maurice passed the night on the battle-field; the admiral supping with him in his tent. Next morning he went to Ostend, where a great
sweep, was baptized by the name of the tranquil town in West Friesland where most of his ship's company were born. Meantime the seven ships under command of Jac
strongholds within the territory of the commonwealth. It was now secretly determined to attempt an aggressive movement on a considerable scale, and to carry the
rn frontier of the republic. Foiled in his efforts for a combined attack by the whole force of the league upon Philip's power in the west, he thought it at leas
For seventeen days more they were tossing about in mist and raging snow-storms, and amidst tremendous icebergs, some of them rising in steeples and pinnacles to
 chicane as he undoubtedly was, would have found it difficult to find any man of intelligence or influence in that rebellious commonwealth, of which he was once
ise the expenses of government or to attempt interference with the increase of taxation became a sorry farce. The forms remained in certain provinces after the 
to free communication, it was the key to the gates of the capital. It had no garrison, for the population numbered fifteen thousand men able to bear arms, and t
 than were the States' troops at the dauntless bearing of the prince. It was one of those supreme moments in battle and in history which are sometimes permitted
he king for all the honours conferred upon them, but declared themselves grieved to the heart by his refusal to grant their request. The course pursued by his M
 All that breathed or grew belonged to him, and most steadily was the stream of blood and treasure poured through the sieve of his perpetual war. His system was
aw that the King of Spain had any remorse for his former offences against her, and wished to make atonement for them, she was willing to declare that her heart 
r His singular grace in that He has been pleased to make use of your person as the instrument of so renowned and signal a victory, for which, as you have derive
reignties been the result of accident. For it was owing to a series of accidents--in the common acceptation of that term--that Philip governed so mighty a realm
 of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works 1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work, you indicate that y
hey ever be surprised--and in half an hour Amiens was the property of Philip of Spain. There were not very many lives lost, for the resistance was small, but gr
ne William Barendz lay in the boat studying carefully the charts which they had made of the land and ocean discovered in their voyage. Tossing about in an open 
 water-brooks;" and he spoke faintly at long intervals of the Magdalen, of the prodigal son, and of the paralytic. When these devotional exercises had been conc
lectronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distributio
roject Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ websi
h consummation he had squandered so many thousands of lives, so many millions of treasure, and brought ruin to so many prosperous countries, prepared himself fo
 live or die that day at the feet of Prince Maurice. Two hours long these two armies had stood looking each other in the face. It was near two o'clock when the 
ize important points before he could reach them, to impose upon him by an appearance of far greater force than the republican army could actually boast, to prot
 person with a hundred thousand men, and the emperor's brother, Maximilian, in conjunction with the Prince of Transylvania, at the head of a force of equal magn
 eight hundred horsemen, to assail such an army as this? Was it not to invoke upon his head the swift vengeance of Heaven? Nevertheless, the painstaking, cautio
as the province of Moors, Jews, and other heretics; of the Marani or accursed, miscreants and descendants of miscreants; of the Sanbeniti or infamous, wretches 
s the duty of other sovereigns to do the same. The envoys replied that they were not disposed at that moment to sit in judgment upon the king's actions. They wo
 States- General to Caron, dated on the 3rd July. There could no longer be any doubt on the subject, and the envoy of the republic had now full details of the g
ereign of all the Netherlands, and after marching at ease through the heart of his territory--was preparing a movement, with every prospect of success, which sh
n. "We ought not to flatter ourselves," said Buzanval, "that these maritime peoples will cast themselves one day into our nets, nor do I know that it would be a
eir robes and caps of white fox-skin which they had worn while citizens of Nova Zembla, they were straightway brought before the magistrates to give an account 
 prices now prevalent, would show many remarkable discrepancies. Thus a bushel of wheat at Antwerp during Philip's reign might cost a quarter of a dollar, in av
ed the sole opening pierced by nature through the mighty southern circumpolar continent. A few years later a daring Hollander was to demonstrate the futility of
acquire a property in the soil. Thus that famous fowl in every pot was to make its appearance, which vulgar tradition ascribes to the bounty of a king who hated
y it was thought desirable that young Frederic Henry, a mere boy, on whom the hopes of the Orange-Nassau house would rest if Maurice fell in the conflict, shoul
biding interest of the battle is derived from is moral effect, from its influence on the people of the Netherlands. And this could scarcely be exaggerated. The 
degree of culture; lived in the practice of every virtue and in the enjoyment of every blessing. Others peopled these mysterious regions with horrible savages, 
that was left him, and at the head of these he essayed an advance. He seemed the only man on the field not frightened; and menacing, conjuring, persuading the f
ans were simply infinite fields of ice, through which however they were able to steer their course without much impediment, getting into clear sea beyond about 
erence to which the world was to pause and the course of events to flow backwards. Truly, despots and their lackeys were destined to learn some rude lessons fro
ted to Velasco; the marshal-general of the camp was Frederic van den Berg, in place of the superannuated Peter Ernest; while the Admiral of Arragon, Francisco d
 sworn to, before he was treating with secret agents sent to him by the cardinal. "And now," she continued, "they propose to send an ambassador to inform me of 
er Noot, four squadrons of Dutch cavalry, and two pieces of artillery composed the force with which Ernest set forth at a little before dawn on his hazardous bu
that the Netherlanders were the first to effect this dangerous passage with a fleet of heavy ships. On the following day, in commemoration of the event, he foun
 great degree be attributed. Thus, these navigators were but slenderly provided with the appliances with which hazardous voyages have been smoothed by modern ar
ssible combination in order to check such dark designs, and to save these important territories from the ubiquitous power of Spain. The stadholder had also fami
se. At a not distant day many errors, disseminated by the boldest of Portuguese navigators, were to be corrected by the splendid discoveries of sailors sent for
le in charity. Very few of the swarming millions of naked and hungry throughout the land were clothed or nourished out of these prodigious revenues of the Churc
ir hands, and swear solemnly to live or die that day at the feet of Prince Maurice. Two hours long these two armies had stood looking each other in the face. It
 with this wholesome sentiment they took leave of the lord high treasurer. They left London immediately, on the last day of May, without, passports. or despatch
e--Queen Elizabeth and Envoy Caron--Peace proposals of Spain to Elizabeth--Conferences at Gertruydenberg--Uncertain state of affairs. The military operations in
u of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work
on felt at the fact that the enemy had been able so lately to construct one of those strongholds within the territory of the commonwealth. It was now secretly d
iance which they had long since spurned. Nevertheless it is difficult to say whether there were at this moment more of animosity in Elizabeth's mind towards her
 permitted to the adventurers on this occasion to proceed so far. The strait was already filled with ice-drift, and their vessels were brought to a standstill, 
ar Idle, listless, dice-playing, begging, filching vagabonds Ignorance is the real enslaver of mankind Imagining that they held the world's destiny in their han
ube, at Keveste, not far from the city of Erlau, on the 26th October, the terrible encounter on which the fate of Christendom seemed to hang at last took place,
tion of the whole States' army. Strange to say, this was the first intimation received by Count Lewis of that grave disaster, although it had been for some hour
to know what all this parleying meant. They could not believe that people would make a raree-show of the English envoy except for sufficient reason. Caron accor
e not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook. 1.E.2. If an individual Projec
erivative works, reports, performances and research. Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may do practically ANYTHING in the 
merce at once. The intelligence, enthusiasm, and tenacity in wrestling against immense obstacles manifested by the young republic at this great expanding era of
the little assistance or co-operation yielded by England. Calvaert replied that he had nothing to say in defence of England, but that certainly the king could h
, and for a handsome price paid down on the nail having acknowledged him to be their legitimate and Catholic sovereign, now turned their temporary attention to 
he found a crowd of several thousand people assembled, who shouted welcome to the representative of Henry, and invoked blessings on the head of Queen Elizabeth 
ould be enforced adequately or abandoned entirely Sacked and drowned ten infant princes Sages of every generation, read the future like a printed scroll Seems b
 to the record of his Indian experiences a practical manual for navigators. He described the course of the voyage from Lisbon to the East, the currents, the tra
for my purpose to describe in detail the series of voyages by way of the Cape of Good Hope which, beginning with the adventures of the brothers Houtmann at this
tiations with Spain. Elizabeth, on her part, was vexed with everybody. What the States most feared was that she might, in her anger or her avarice, make use of 
sham, a mere decoy to foreign nations, especially to the Dutch republic, to induce them to imitate England in joining the league, and to emulate her likewise in
ute to allow of any such sudden turning to account of the serious errors of the victors. The cavalry, except this handful, had long disappeared, at least half t
 sphere of diplomacy. In vain did the envoy of the republic urge Henry and his counsellors to follow up the crushing blow dealt to the cardinal at Turnhout by v
tates by rebukes for their short-comings in the field and by demands for immediate co-operation in the king's campaign, when the king was doing nothing but besi
 works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of 
y which they possess of suspending the emperor and depriving him of his power; there being examples of this in other times against emperors who governed ill." T
to affix the cherished appellation of Orange. This, however, was the limit of his voyage. His ship was ill-provisioned, and the weather had been severe beyond e
breast to go through, while beyond was a swampy-country in which military operations were impossible. Yet there remained less than half a league's space for the
he planks. As they emerged into the open country beyond, the Spanish soldiers guarding the passage fled without firing a shot. Such was already the discouraging
covery that in the latitude of 76 deg. the sun reappeared on the 24th January, instead of the 10th February, was destined to awaken commotion throughout the who
bundle of halters at the other, he desired to be informed whether the governor would prefer to surrender or to hang with his whole garrison. The cock feathers s
itude, or was sustained by more ecstatic visions of heavenly mercy, than was now the case with the great monarch of Spain. That the grave-worms should do their 
vironed them. Their provisions were already running near exhaustion; and they were feeding on raw seal-flesh, on snails and mussels, and on whatever the barren 
 officiating bishop was to head the procession, bearing the crucifix, and followed by the clergy. The Adelantado was to come next, trailing the royal standard a
as if the dead could feel The icy worm about them steal:"--BYRON.] On the 22nd July, the king asked Dr. Mercado if his sickness was likely to have a fatal termi
 bear Worn nor caused to be worn the collar of the serf Wrath of that injured personage as he read such libellous truths *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 
d lately advanced to the crown, not by ordinary succession of blood, but by election, he understandeth not yet the way of such affairs." And so on--for several 
 the shores of the great continent would be found to trend in a south-easterly direction, and that along that coast it would accordingly be easy to make the des
LITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR
Plancius by name, a Calvinist preacher, and one of the most zealous and intolerant of his cloth. In an age and a country which had not yet thoroughly learned th
make use of boats than in waiting for the falling of the water, and, should the enemy make his appearance while they were engaged in such confusing efforts, the
Nassau home. In vain. The catastrophe was upon them. As they struggled slowly past the "Ice-haven," the floating mountains and glaciers, impelled by the mighty 
r in the problem, as was supposed, still it would have been difficult for any one of these powers to absorb the United Netherlands. As for France, she hardly co
ith two thousand veterans from the Netherlands, and the Dutch admirals, with ten ships of war and a large number of tenders and transports, had faithfully taken
ecovered Crevecoeur, and obtained the surrender of St. Andrew, the fort which the admiral had built the preceding year in honour of Albert's uncle. That ecclesi
s it were on the fringe of the battle, its real bustle and business had been going on in the downs. Just as Lewis made his charge in the pastures, the infantry 
ummon the king to fulfil his solemnly sworn covenants with the league. The States-General had never doubted, they said, that so soon as the enemy had begun to f
n, Man remains, and to all appearance is perpetual and immortal even on this earth. Whatever science acquires man inherits. Whatever steadfastness is gained for
t battleground of Europe--the Netherlands. Maurice, to whom the chief credit of the victory was unquestionably due, had been firm and impassive during the vario
und which the great current of universal commerce was thenceforth to sweep, was baptized by the name of the tranquil town in West Friesland where most of his sh
death. All the artillery of the archduke--seven pieces besides the two captured from Ernest in the morning--one hundred and twenty standards, and a long list of
 short time to be taken as well into the royal confidence. These French politicians stated that the king, after receiving the most liberal offers of peace on th
and outcasts, it was impossible to supply their place by native workmen. Even the mechanics, who condescended to work with their hands in the towns, looked down
heir own children Road to Paris lay through the gates of Rome Royal plans should be enforced adequately or abandoned entirely Sacked and drowned ten infant prin
ready seen, and as will soon be more clearly developed--that Henry's heart had been fixed on peace from the moment that he consented in conjunction with the rep
he king had good reasons to give satisfaction to those who were yearning for peace. As Henry himself was yearning in this regard as much as any of his subjects,
an never be too often repeated that it, is only the Spaniard of the sixteenth century, such as extraneous circumstances had made him, that is here depicted; tha
g about in mist and raging snow-storms, and amidst tremendous icebergs, some of them rising in steeples and pinnacles to a hundred feet above the sea, some grou
tly forwarded in a States' vessel of war to England. His reception, about a month later, by Queen Elizabeth is an event on which all English historians are fond
led St. Albert, which was in the downs at about a league from that city. All this work was thoroughly accomplished; little or no resistance having been made to 
reat military success was absolutely indispensable, if the treacherous cry of peace, when peace was really impossible, should not become universal and fatal. Me
d authority had expanded into an intensity of religious emotion and into a fanaticism of loyalty which caused the anointed monarch leading true believers agains
ming numbers, easily capturing the cannon. The attack began upon Ernest's left, and Risoir's cavalry, thinking that they should be cut off from all possibility 
 Maurice gained as much credit by the defensive strategy through which he saved the republic from the horrors thus afflicting its neighbours, as he had ever don
 briefly performed every few days. His sufferings were horrible, but no saint could have manifested in them more gentle resignation or angelic patience. He mora
nd themselves imprisoned again near the "Hook of Desire." On the 25th August they had given up all the high hopes by which they had been so lately inspired, and
age. So deliberately were the broadcloths, linens, tapestries, and other assorted articles for this first great speculation to Cathay, via the North Pole, stowe
erg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™ ele
as, the great potentate against whom these republicans had been so long in rebellion, in every known region of the globe. Both from the newly discovered western
 directed to proceed as fast as the wind would permit in the direction of Nieuport. The march then began. On the 23rd they advanced a league and halted for the 
led no council of war, for he knew not how much might be known or suspected of the disaster already sustained, and he had fully made up his mind as to the cours
mplying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you fol
isse; but he certainly could make no reproach of that nature against the republic, nor assign their lukewarmness as an excuse for his desertion. The envoys were
e career. Having reduced the town and castle of Alphen, the stadholder came before Rheinberg, which he very expeditiously invested. During a preliminary skirmis
iens. Having sent these disguised soldiers on before him, he had passed the night with his men in ambush until the signal should sound. The burghers of the town
lnuts. The siege of Amiens lasted nearly six months, and was the main event of the campaign, so far as Henry was concerned. It is true--as the reader has alread
every day's delay, it was decided to make a landing upon the nearest point of Flemish coast placed by circumstances within their reach: Count Ernest of Nassau; 
ards, should his troops, as he felt confident, behave themselves as they had always done, and that the delay would be of inestimable value to his friends at the
 voyage was full of danger as they slowly retraced their way along the track by which they reached the memorable Ice Haven, once more doubling the Cape of Desir
y brotherhood of sovereigns and patricians seems more thoroughly inspired with the spirit of Christian chivalry than were those weather-beaten adventurers. The 
Infanta, although he was very angry that his brother should aspire to the hand which he himself rejected. In case of his death without children, Philip thought 
 service of the enemy. Burghley rejoined that the Hollanders had the whole world beside to pursue their traffic in, that they did indeed trade over the whole wo
 to govern your kingdoms." Then he produced a scourge, which he said was the instrument with which his father, the emperor, had been in the habit of chastising 
he Holy Inquisition--The work and character of Philip. While the utterly barren conferences had been going on at Angiers and Nantes between Henry IV. and the re
, and to do battle with him in every corner of the earth. The world had already seen, and was still to see, how nobly Netherlanders could keep their own. Meanti
e castle with the stadholder, and, in the course of their promenade, Maurice pointed to the thirty-eight standards taken at the battle of Turnhout, which hung f
ngs uttered, as we know, by the English sovereign and her statesmen against the nefarious traffic which the Dutch republic persisted in carrying on with the com
 an individual, may remain far below its ideal; but, without an ideal, governments and individuals are alike contemptible. It is tyranny only--whether individua
siastical Government--Revenues of the Church--Characteristics of the Spanish clergy--Foreign commerce of Spain--Governmental system of Philip II.--Founded on th
aurice's army which still stood on what remained of the beach to follow this movement. A rapid change of front was then undertaken, and--thanks to the careful s
 war in Flanders had established a temporary equilibrium among the western powers--France and England discussing, intriguing, and combining in secret with each 
g a shot. Such was already the discouraging effect produced upon veterans by the unexpected order given that morning to retreat. Vere and Bax sent word for all 
f the poor people, and to put it into their heads that the Queen of England is suing for peace, which is very wide of the mark." She further observed that, as t
tion, every thing was lost. No viler panic, no more complete defeat was ever recorded. Such at half-past eight in the morning was that memorable Sunday of the 2
been before, and discovered, as he believed, a portion of the southern continent, which he called, with reason good, Gerrit's Land. The name in course of time f
k no ardent spirits. They had beer and wine in reasonable quantities, but no mention is ever made in the journals of their famous voyages of any more potent liq
o pounds weight of flour, which they had brought to make paste with for cartridges, was baked into pancakes with a little oil, and a single hard biscuit was ser
 them to the States' envoy. The republican statesmen had certainly cause enough to suspect Henry's intentions, but they did not implicitly trust Elizabeth. They
heir unscrupulous and insolent foe. He was there to share their fate, to conquer or to perish with them, and from their tried valour and from the God of battles
 comrade Gerrit de Veer, were of opinion that the philosopher had made "rather a free representation" of the enterprise of 1594 and of the prospects for the fut
s an astounding question to be discharged like a pistol-shot full in the face of a republican minister. The answer of the Advocate was sufficiently adroit if no
he middle-aged ecclesiastic whom she was about to espouse to take possession in her name of the very desirable property which she had thus acquired. It certainl
e northern coast of Nova Zembla and the pole. Three ships and a fishing yacht were provided by the cities of Enkhuizen, Amsterdam, and by the province of Zeelan
ves. According to the unfailing and universal impulse on such occasions, the names dear to the fatherland were naturally selected. The straits were called Nassa
he centre of his army. He wore no helmet, that his men might the more readily recognize him as he rode gallantly to and fro, marshalling, encouraging, exhorting
ystem to that of absolutism and the Inquisition, became, after centuries of struggles towards the right, the most powerful, prosperous, and enlightened kingdom 
 the head of whom stood the Archbishop of Toledo, with the enormous annual revenue of three hundred thousand dollars. Next to him came the Archbishop of Seville
n vain the prince threw himself in front of them and strove to check their flight. They were panic-struck, and Maurice would himself have been swept off the fie
powered at that time all other considerations. The States wished to govern themselves, she said; why then could they not make arrangements against all dangers, 
fighting behind dykes and ramparts of cities, but who never ventured to face a Spanish army in the open field. Mendoza sustained himself with equanimity however
ion under the edicts of 1540, decrees which every one had supposed as obsolete as the statutes of Draco, which they had so entirely put to shame. The sentence h
mference not an inch of land or water was traversed that was not the domain of Philip. For the sea, too, was his as well as the dry land. From Borneo to Califor
he narrated the whole conversation to the Queen of England. On the 27th April both Barneveld and Nassau were admitted to the royal dressing-room in Nantes citad
nsolence which marked all his proposed arrangements, that as Rudolph would retire from the government altogether, Albert, as King of the Romans and acting emper
ayed for enlightenment from Him, if she were in error, and the result was that she felt strengthened in her simplicity, and resolved to do nothing against her c
s reign--Extent of the Spanish dominions--Causes of the greatness of Spain, and of its downfall-- Philip's wars and their expenses--The Crown revenues of Spain-
e should at once take the field on the Flemish frontier of France, and aid in the campaign to the full extent of their resources. If the king were disposed to u
il the next day. These arguments, which had much logic in them, were strongly urged by Zapena, a veteran marshal of the camp who had seen much service, and whos
schede, Ootmaxsum, Oldenzaal, and Lingen--Rebellion of the Spanish garrisons in Antwerp and Ghent--Progress of the peace movement between Henry and Philip--Rela
glory in destroying them." Delay might after all cause the loss of the prize, it was eagerly shouted. The archduke ought to pray that the sun might stand still 
y for the States. No doubt that monarch would gladly consent to the proposed truce, for it, would be indeed strange if by means of it he could not so establish 
f the great intellect to which he had always willingly deferred in affairs of state, and from which; even in military matters, it was hardly possible for him to
of Castile, while not more than six hundred thousand came from the three kingdoms which constituted Arragon. The chief sources of money receipts were a tax of t
ery much hampered, and their revenues sadly diminished by the severe prohibitions which had succeeded to the remarkable indulgence hitherto accorded to foreign 
and lost no time in assembling such troops as could be mustered from far and near to protect the western frontier. Especially he despatched messengers well char
eth further reproachfully observed, that although the king talked about continuing the war, he seemed really tired of that dangerous pursuit, in which he had ex
ring the sea as far as the eye could reach. All hands came up to look at the amazing spectacle, but the more experienced soon perceived that the myriads of swan
 other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including le
f, as we deserve to be treated. Nevertheless, your State is not a monarchy, and so we must take all things into consideration, and weigh its faults against its 
l the arguments by which the king's interest and honour were proved to require him to desist from the peace negotiations. And the orator had as much success as 
o the Isle of St. Thomas, near the equator, where the towns and villages were sacked and burned, and where a contagious sickness broke out in the fleet, sweepin
y visage that the faithful friend of Henry instantly imagined some personal disaster to his well-beloved sovereign. "Is the King dead?" he cried. Being re-assur
f pike far beyond their original position; and again the conquered republicans recovered their energy and smote their adversaries as if the contest were just be
 intensely eager to prevent, with all speed, the consummation of a treaty between its ally and its enemy--a step which it was feared might be fatal to its natio
g the absence of the cardinal-archduke an almost universal mutiny, occasioned by the inability of the exchequer to provide payment for the troops, established i
ense, to collect alms from rich and poor for sustaining the war against the infidels of England and Holland. A certain Jesuit, father Sicily by name, had been i
cline a bribe or interfere with the private sale of places Disciple of Simon Stevinus Divine right of kings Done nothing so long as aught remained to do Eat the
all amount--even after due allowance for the difference of general values between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries--of sixteen millions of dollars. The Ki
These French politicians stated that the king, after receiving the most liberal offers of peace on the part of Spain, had communicated all the facts to the quee
 assassins against Elizabeth and Henry, Nassau, Barneveld, and others who, whether avowedly or involuntarily, were prominent in the party of human progress. Som
nd Portuguese, to whom they were originally due. Antwerp and subsequently Amsterdam had thriven on the great revolution of the Indian trade which Vasco de Gama'
te her likewise in affording that substantial assistance to the league which in reality England was very far from giving. "Two contracts were made," said Secret
d to Velasco; the marshal-general of the camp was Frederic van den Berg, in place of the superannuated Peter Ernest; while the Admiral of Arragon, Francisco de 
 Flanders and to capture Nieuport; and the decree accordingly went forth, despite all opposition. The States-General were sovereign, and the Advocate and the St
to past claims and present necessities, or let them be prepared for her immediate negotiation with the enemy. Should she decide to treat, she would not be unmin
trides of the two great Anglo-Saxon families, the statistics both of population and of maritime commerce in that famous and most vigorous epoch would seem suffi
 India and China was effected, or else to submit to the confiscation of Dutch ships in Spanish ports, and the confinement of Dutch sailors in the dungeons of th
y he despatched messengers well charged with promises, to confer with the authorities of the "Italian Republic" at Diest and Thionville. He appealed to them in 
ing that he would instantly go and fetch his papers, left the apartment for an interval, in order to give vent to the horrible agitation which he had been endur
t still safe and sound. Meantime the mad chase continued along the beach and through the downs. Never was a rout more absolute than that of Albert's army. Never
, and begging the duchess to use her influence in their behalf, respectfully bade her farewell. She promised not to forget their request, and thanked them for t
maintenance of their rebellion. The provincial estates were summoned accordingly to pay roundly for the expenses of the war as well as of the court, and to enab
ost benignant manner signified his thanks to them for thus removing all doubts from his mind, and for giving him information which it was of so much importance 
e flown. Especially the leaders of the mutineers of Diest and Thionville were hoarse with indignation at the proposed delay. They had not left their brethren, t
dered Hohenlo, with all the Brabantine cavalry, to ride as rapidly as their horses could carry them along the edge of the plain, and behind the tangled woodland
s of England and Scotland on his pension-lists of traitors, and impoverishing his exchequer with the wages of iniquity paid in France to men of all degrees, fro
 either thoroughly satisfy her as to past claims and present necessities, or let them be prepared for her immediate negotiation with the enemy. Should she decid
s hung upon the rear of the Spanish army now, as it moved toward Nieuport, they might, by judiciously skirmishing, advancing and retreating according to circums
m the Prince Philip, heir apparent to the crown. On the 30th May the Infanta executed a procuration by which she gave absolute authority to her future husband t
erprise should be attempted, but with the utmost secrecy. A week later the council sent an express messenger to Maurice urging him not to expose his own life to
se they again saw the disk of the sun on the edge of the horizon, and they all hastened back with the glad tidings. But Barendz shook his head. Many days must e
try, bordered on one side by the swollen river, here flowing again through steeper banks which were overgrown with alders and pollard willows. Along the left of
Francis Vere. Besides Prince Maurice, there were three other members of the house of Nassau serving in the expedition--his half-brother Frederic Henry, then a l
orce of Turnhout, before they should succeed in doing any mischief. The prince pondered the proposition, for a little time, by himself, and then conferred very 
tive indifference, since meantime the present effect to the republic of those deep emotions was a treacherous desertion. Calvaert, too, who had so long haunted 
 of the great victory spread through the land. When the fight was done the archduke called a council of war. It was a grave question whether the army should at 
s of the Spanish Commander--Siege of Orsoy--Advance upon Rheinberg--Murder of the Count of Broeck and his garrison--Capture of Rees and Emmerich-- Outrages of t
ed the opinions of Prince Maurice, every military man in the provinces of any consideration, was opposed to, the scheme. Especially Lewis William--than whom no 
re the convictions of the States- General. The unwonted ardour of Barneveld did not inflame his imagination. He urged that the enterprise was inexcusably rash; 
tly pledging himself, to make underhand but substantial war against Spain, with which power he was at that instant concluding peace, while at the same time he w
time by La Bourlotte to three thousand men. A rainy week succeeded, and Maurice then announced to the States-General the necessity of abandoning an enterprise, 
e stragglers. While this brilliant diversion had been enacting as it were on the fringe of the battle, its real bustle and business had been going on in the dow
 they might shelter themselves from the wild beasts, and from their still more cruel enemy, the cold. So thanking God for the providential and unexpected supply
from that basis to redeem Dunkirk. The possession of these two cities, besides that of Ostend, which had always been retained by the Republic, would ensure the 
t incessant fogs or tempests, that the whole population died every winter and were only recalled to temporary existence by the advent of a tardy and evanescent 
illiam Barendz." Alas! they were not aware of the action of that mighty ocean river, the Gulf-stream, which was sweeping around those regions with its warm diss
 thousand infantry and five squadrons of horse. CHAPTER XXXV. Negotiations between France and Spain--Conclusion of the treaty of peace--Purchase of the allegian
adrid in a litter borne by servants, accomplishing the journey of seven leagues in six days. When he reached the palace cloister, he was unable to stand. The go
leet, and a man who was afterwards destined to achieve an immortal name in the naval history of his country, Jacob Heemskerk, was supercargo of the Amsterdam sh
, and those rendered by the queen to the States' envoy. Of course the objurgations of the Hollanders that the king, in a very fallacious hope of temporary gain 
but such professions are the common staple of orations and documents for public consumption. As the accounts became more and more minute, however, of Henry's in
nd it was now the purpose of these statesmen to find a new bride for their insane sovereign in the ever ready and ever orthodox house of Lorrain. And the Protes
nd which now came to relieve the commerce of the republic, and therefore the republic itself, from the danger of positive annihilation. It is not necessary for 
to take them to Diego de Yepes, the confessor:-- "Father Confessor, you are in the place of God, and I protest thus before His presence that I will do all that 
republic, nor assign their lukewarmness as an excuse for his desertion. The envoys were ready to take their departure for France on the last day of January. It 
s then supposed the only passage through the vast continent which, according to ideas then prevalent, extended from the Southern Pole to Greenland, and from Jav
to prevent the men who had remained in the fort from joining in the flight towards Ostend. Many of them indeed threw themselves over the walls and were sabred b
oops committed upon German soil. An army--very slowly organized, against the wishes of the emperor, the bishops, and the Catholic party--took the field, and mad
ongholds of Zeeland. Marcellus Bax, that boldest and most brilliant of Holland's cavalry officers, had come to Maurice early in January with an urgent suggestio
Brill and Flushing in the Netherlands. This proposal, however, to make a considerable campaign in Picardy, and to be indemnified by Henry for her trouble with t
 was overflowing, and he was even supposed to devote a considerable portion of the military funds to defray the expenses of his magnificent housekeeping at Brus
d not accept a prince without placing themselves under his absolute authority, and the Netherlanders would never subject themselves to their deadly enemy, whom 
d by David Widger *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE UNITED NETHERLANDS FROM THE DEATH OF WILLIAM THE SILENT TO THE TWELVE YEAR'S TRUCE, 16
n at the guard-house, the gate dropped again before the wagon had fairly got through the passage, and remained resting upon the timber with which it was piled. 
eerfulness amid toil, suffering, and danger. No chapter of history utters a more beautiful homily an devotion to duty as the true guiding principle of human con
lict--while Spain and the cardinal-archduke on the one side, and the republic on the other, prepared themselves for another encounter in the blood-stained arena
ish disaster had nearly been changed to victory. The fight was almost done, when a small party of Staten' cavalry, who at the beginning of the action had follow
of his empire can be stated. A despot really keeps no accounts, nor need to do so, for he is responsible to no man for the way in which he husbands or squanders
that, although the King of Spain was unquestionably very powerful, the Lord God was still stronger; that England and the Netherlands together could maintain the
s policy of their allies. The cardinal-archduke, on the other hand, was occupied with the great events of his marriage, of his father-in-law's death, and of his
dition describes with much gravity as a "kind of diamonds, very plentiful upon the island." While two of the men were thus especially engaged in a deep hollow, 
the pope, had been flitting very busily for many months between Rome, Madrid, Brussels, and Paris, and there could be little doubt that every detail of the nego
chduke was not willing to make a general peace, including England and Holland. Balvena replied that he had no authority to treat on that subject; it being well 
xisting was subject to more danger than monarchies were, and he asked the Advocate if he thought there was no disposition to elect a prince. Barneveld replied t
anish agent, was that he should send off Balvena in such fashion that it would take from the cardinal-archduke all hope of troubling him with any further propos
lf, now that it had been decided upon by his sovereigns the States- Generals, with the same loyalty as that of Maurice, to bring it to a favourable issue, altho
at the meagreness of his revenues, of his expenditures, and of the debts which at the close of his career brought him to bankruptcy; were the sums estimated in 
 on a white palfrey, galloped along the lines, and likewise made an harangue. She spoke to the soldiers as "her lions," promised them boundless rewards in this 
ls or of nations at widely different epochs. The dollar of Philip's day was essentially the same bit of silver that it is in our time in Spain, Naples, Rome, or
o the open country beyond, the Spanish soldiers guarding the passage fled without firing a shot. Such was already the discouraging effect produced upon veterans
the united armies of Christendom, and seek for glory by campaigning, in alliance with Philip; Rudolph, and Henry, against the Ottoman, rather than against his n
ve Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax retu
ration of mankind. They scarcely did more than measure swords and test each other's objects, before arriving at a conviction as to the inevitable result of the 
with the political intrigues of his allies which had--brought a paralysis upon his arms which the blows of the enemy could hardly have effected, Maurice took th
affectionate terms to his father--now commanded all the cavalry. Certainly if the doctrine of primordial selection could ever be accepted among human creatures,
 that blood-stained soil. The daughter of the man who had so long oppressed the provinces might soon be a fugitive from the land over which she had so recently 
riod, it must be admitted that the condition he thus suggested was a very safe one to offer. He had thoroughly satisfied himself during the period in which he h
timent of Christian self-complacency Sewers which have ever run beneath decorous Christendom Shift the mantle of religion from one shoulder to the other Slain f
ed in cold blood. Thus were these strong and well-manned redoubts, by which Prince Maurice had hoped to impede for many days the march of a Spanish army--should
one Portuguese mariner had been the first to double the southern cape of Africa, and another, at the opposite side of the world, had opened what was then suppos
d, but Albert escaped, and, accompanied by the Duke of Aumale, who was also slightly wounded, by Colonel La Bourlotte, and half a dozen troopers rode for their 
ron, on his part, who had been left with several companies of veterans to hold Oudenburg and the other forts, and to protect the rear of the invading army, was 
of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Guten
tical schemes and dreams at this moment--as much as his passion for Mademoiselle d'Entraigues, who had so soon supplanted the image of the dead Gabrielle in his
t easy for her to return peacefully to her ancient thraldom. The queen asked Caron what he thought of the project. How could that diplomatist reply but with pol
ic. That was the queen's method of assisting an ally, but it was not the practice of the States. Buzanval, who was quite aware of his master's decision to concl
 and to provide for the highest interests of the people. It matters comparatively little by what name a government is called, so long as the intellectual and mo
rprise. At a not distant day many errors, disseminated by the boldest of Portuguese navigators, were to be corrected by the splendid discoveries of sailors sent
 Antwerp citadel during the temporary absence of Mexia, the governor, and great was the misery of the unhappy burghers thus placed at the mercy of the guns of t
elates was to increase their worldly, possessions, to build up the fortunes of their respective families, to grow richer and richer at the expense of the people
pyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms 
vantage of rapidly assuming many shapes Famous fowl in every pot Fed on bear's liver, were nearly poisoned to death Fellow worms had been writhing for half a ce
rs. Thousands of hoarse voices greeted the eloquence of the archdukes with rude acclamations, while the discharge of arquebus and volleys of cannon testified to
 recently discovered fourth quarter of the world in short, from the "Land of Fire" in the South to the frozen regions of the North--as much territory as the Spa
eir departure for France on the last day of January. It might be a curious subject to consider how far historical events are modified and the world's destiny af
ble, but he bore the brunt of the encounter with much fortitude. "Monsieur the Admiral of Arragon," said the stadholder in French, "is more fortunate than many 
 a proportion of population that was essentially maritime. They were born sailors--men and women alike--and numerous were the children who had never set foot on
which she had been born and bred. The Jesuits denounced this maid-servant to the civil authority, and claimed her condemnation and execution under the edicts of
er persons, soon brought the interview to a termination. Barneveld then presented several gentlemen attached to the mission, especially his son and Hugo Grotius
d once for all to learn what they had to say. Thus she should make manifest to all the world that she was not averse to a treaty such as might prove a secure pe
focation, so that no human being could move a ship's length without perishing; while, did any of their number venture forth, as the tempest subsided, it was oft
quadrons of horse. On the 22nd January Maurice came to Gertruydenberg, the place of rendezvous, attended by Sir Francis Vere and Count Solms. Colonel Kloetingen
 down as little as possible on the nail, while providing for what they considered a liberal annual sinking fund. The English, on the contrary, were for a good r
old and decrepit Philip. The Ottoman empire, in its exact discipline, in its terrible concentration of purpose, in its contempt for all arts and sciences, and a
ortion to its length, its depression amidships, and in other sins against symmetry, as much opposition to progress over the waves as could well be imagined, was
 portion of the river, surrendered. On the 31st the stadholder opened his batteries upon the city of Meurs, which capitulated on the 2nd of September; the comma
tchless powers of intrigue possessed by Rome to effect this great purpose. As for Elizabeth, she was weary of the war, most anxious to be reimbursed her advance
ession was signed at Madrid on the 6th May, 1598. It was accompanied by a letter of the same date from the Prince Philip, heir apparent to the crown. On the 30t
of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical 
ir behalf, respectfully bade her farewell. She promised not to forget their request, and thanked them for the presents of damask and fine linen. Such was the re
he had lived for centuries in violation of the principles on which the wealth and strength of nations depend. Moreover, every one of those subject and violently
 that fortress nor in Ostend dreamed of an enemy within twenty miles of them, nor had it been supposed possible that a Spanish army could take the field for man
istendom had ever ploughed, and to those fabulous regions where the foot of civilized men had never trod. Maalzoon, Plancius, and Balthaser Moucheron, merchant 
a ASCII” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website (www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fe
and real or fabulous dangers environed them. Their provisions were already running near exhaustion; and they were feeding on raw seal-flesh, on snails and musse
cots on the right hesitated not for an instant to follow their example. Even before the expected battle had begun, one of those hideous and unaccountable panics
ces among the hillocks exposed him to an attack in flank, was now rapidly transferred to the downs. It was necessary for that portion of Maurice's army which st
eir tried valour and from the God of battles he hoped a more magnificent victory than had ever before been achieved in this almost perpetual war for independenc
 it. The condition of the war in Flanders had established a temporary equilibrium among the western powers--France and England discussing, intriguing, and combi
n diplomatic chicane as he undoubtedly was, would have found it difficult to find any man of intelligence or influence in that rebellious commonwealth, of which
paniards and their adherents, and thus render the States eternally obliged to the sovereigns and kingdoms of France and England, my lords the States-General wou
al destiny there was a single Hollander who had thoroughly learned the lesson which it was so necessary that all his countrymen should now be taught. Few men of
inning of this work. 1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this w
ntention of doing what he had already done. Hurault de Maisse arrived in England not long before the time when the peace-commissioners were about assembling at 
ns to his ends Utter disproportions between the king's means and aims Valour on the one side and discretion on the other Walk up and down the earth and destroy 
ar. The trade of the provinces, moreover, was very much hampered, and their revenues sadly diminished by the severe prohibitions which had succeeded to the rema
sh ambassador and commissioner Herbert. Cecil presided, and Barneveld once more went over the whole ground, resuming with his usual vigour all the arguments by 
d this want of decision manifested itself in so striking a manner. Accordingly the States-General, or in other words John of Olden-Barneveld proposed to invade 
liberate their brethren of the same race, and speaking the same language, from abject submission to a foreign despotism. The Flemings had but to speak a word, t
es. Yet those who had known and observed the king closely for thirty years, declared that he had never manifested so much passion, neither on the eve of battles
al or woe, is towards democracy; for it is the tendency of science to liberate and to equalize the physical and even the intellectual forces of humanity. A hors
r independence. The troops, perfectly enthusiastic, replied with a shout that they were ready to live or die with their chieftain, and eagerly demanded to be le
man skull was placed, and upon this skull--in ghastly mockery of royalty, in truth, yet doubtless in the conviction that such an exhibition showed the superiori
hat s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed
would make no peace. It was enough, he said, that his Majesty said nothing about Navarre. Richardot urged that at the time when the English had conquered Calais
and of the cavalry. That force met the expedition at Osterhout, a league's distance from Gertruydenberg, and consisted of the best mounted companies, English an
is emotional and moral nature, undergoes less change than might be hoped from age to age. The tyrant; the patriot, the demagogue, the voluptuary, the peasant, t
beyond the power of language. "'Twas enough to make the hair stand on end," said Gerrit de Veer, "to witness the hideous spectacle." But the agony was soon over
re its eyes, now that the world's trade--for the first time in human history--had become oceanic. In Holland, long since denuded of forests, were great markets 
 holy Church alone that he had endowed her with those provinces, and he now urged it upon her with his dying breath to impress upon her future husband these his
a Protestant revolution in Germany, and that the house of Habsburg might lose the imperial crown altogether. It was even said that the emperor himself was of th
, as a political and psychological study, from this very fact. It has been shown throughout the whole course of this history, by the evidence of his most secret
not signalized by important discoveries. They are chiefly memorable as having laid the foundation of the vast trade out of which the republic was to derive so m
e it with a cargo of merchandize suitable for the China market, and initiate the direct polar-oriental trade without further delay. It seems amazing that so inc
on that no time might be lost in making an attack upon the force of Turnhout, before they should succeed in doing any mischief. The prince pondered the proposit
military critic or accomplished strategist existed in Europe, denounced it with energy and even with indignation. It was, in the opinion of the young stadholder
ous ease, inconsistent with the Ottoman projects of conquering the world. The Turks, less prone to desperation than the Christians, had been utterly overthrown 
e of talking castles and listening ladies Infinite capacity for pecuniary absorption Inhabited by the savage tribes called Samoyedes Innocent generation, to ato
pe. Nothing but a general revolution of mind and hand against the prevalent system, nothing but some great destructive but regenerating catastrophe, could redee
landers. For more than an hour and a half on one occasion of an uncommonly hot afternoon in April did Noel de Caron argue with her Majesty against these ill-bod
here was a splendid banquet in the palace, the duke sitting in solitary grandeur at the royal table, being placed at a respectful distance from her Majesty, and
"that the beasts had smelt out that we meant to go away, and had just begin to have a taste for us." And thus the days wore on. The hour-glass and the almanac t
ourage, and perseverance amid every obstacle, is fit to be classed among the noblest of maritime adventurers, had ended his career. Nor was it unmeet that the m
es that it was Twelfth Night, or Three Kings' Eve. So they all respectfully proposed to Skipper Heemskerk, that, in the midst of their sorrow they might for onc
be gratified. Isabella bore the disappointment and the bitter intelligence of the defeat with a stoicism worthy of her departed father. She had already had inti
h minute details, it is sufficient to say that one-third of the whole annual income of Spain and Portugal belonged to the ecclesiastical body. In return for thi
th America, around which the great current of universal commerce was thenceforth to sweep, was baptized by the name of the tranquil town in West Friesland where
rcumpolar continent. A few years later a daring Hollander was to demonstrate the futility of this theory, and to give his own name to a broader pathway, while t
eemskerk and two companions were the whole garrison, the rest being at a distance sledding wood, the future hero of Gibraltar was near furnishing a meal to his 
 into the very depths of dishonour. And she did spurn them. Surely, for the ally, the protrectress, the grateful friend of the republic, to give its chief seapo
. Such a midsummer voyage in this epoch of steam-tugs and transports would require but a few hours. Yet two days long the fleet lay at anchor while a gentle bre
rely unanswerable. Surely there was no politician in Europe so ignorant as not to know that any treaty of peace between Philip and the States meant their uncond
atitude of 77 deg. before. Yet the antiquary, who compares the maps soon afterwards published by William Blaeuw with the charts now in familiar use, will observ
f the earth to do battle. Even the cautious Elizabeth was deceived by the crafty Bearnese, while both united to hoodwink the other states and princes. On the 31
front, and the spearsmen, of which the bulk of this and of all the regiments was composed, marching in closely serried squares, with the company standards wavin
e worthy of a wider circulation than that which he had originally contemplated. His work was given to the public in the year 1596, and was studied with avidity 
arching gear and armed with the antiquated pike, the affair may be worthy of a moment's attention; and for this improvement--itself now as obsolete as the sling
tion. Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego know the honest knights of the Unchained Lion no more; yet to an unsophisticated mind no stately brotherhood of sovereigns 
naval history of his country, Jacob Heemskerk, was supercargo of the Amsterdam ship. In obedience to the plans of Linschoten and of Maalzoon, the passage by way
e, crowned at last by the success of Balthazar Gerard, nor to his persistent efforts to poison the Queen of England; for the enunciation of all these murders or
rible thought:-- "It is as if the dead could feel The icy worm about them steal:"--BYRON.] On the 22nd July, the king asked Dr. Mercado if his sickness was like
 man than the royal words which constituted the whole trial and sentence of the Chief Justice of Arragon, for the crime of defending the law of his country: "Yo
intercept the enemy's vanguard before it should reach the fatal pass. Vere and Marcellus Bax meanwhile, supported now by Edmont with the Nymegen squadrons, were
 perpetual astonishment. A ship of a hundred tons burden, built up like a tower, both at stem and stern, and presenting in its broad bulbous prow, its width of 
erhuman will expressed themselves. A tribunal which performed its functions with a celerity, certainty, and invisibility resembling the attributes of Omnipotenc
efly performed every few days. His sufferings were horrible, but no saint could have manifested in them more gentle resignation or angelic patience. He moralize
st vigorous epoch would seem sufficiently meagre. Yet there is no doubt that in the relative estimate of forces then in activity it would be difficult to exagge
lishmen struggled on manfully, shoulder to shoulder, through the mist and the mire. By nightfall the expedition had reached Ravels, at less than a league's dist
r arms, and ducking up and down in the sea as if in sport. Then tossing the young ones away, they would rush upon the boats, and endeavour to sink the strangers
; and for anything useful accomplished, after such an expenditure of time, money, and eloquence, the whole transaction might have begun and ended in this touchi
rality of the governing powers of the earth was not entirely according to the apostolic standard. The interviews between the queen and the new ambassador were, 
this handful, had long disappeared, at least half the infantry lay dead or wounded in the field, while the remainder, throwing away pipe and matchlock, were run
swept off from the shore. As they now set to work repairing and making ready the frail skiffs which were now their only hope, and supplying them with provisions
 the course of their promenade, Maurice pointed to the thirty-eight standards taken at the battle of Turnhout, which hung from the cedarn rafters of the ancient
instructions from those who remained on shore, and who had never navigated the ocean at all. The consequence on this occasion was that the voyagers towards the 
reating enemy, ready to charge upon him so soon as they should be strong enough. Maurice lost no time in plunging with his whole mounted force through the water
the sagacious administration of those republican magistrates whom she never failed to respect, even when most inclined to quarrel with them. "Never before was i
ly by that of the most Christian king." On the 31st October the articles of agreement under which the republic acceded to the new confederation were signed at t
eover, he happened to have an intercepted letter in his possession in which Philip told the cardinal that Calais was to be given up if the French made its resti
d their reach. The scene was transformed as if by magic, and the battle was now to be fought out in those shifting, uneven hills and hollows, where every soldie
tonishment. A ship of a hundred tons burden, built up like a tower, both at stem and stern, and presenting in its broad bulbous prow, its width of beam in propo
nsequence of the treaty with the Prince of Bearne, to renounce her right to reign over France. Certainly it was fair enough for the queen and her, counsellors t
--owned all the country, except that vast portion of it which had reposed for ages in the dead-hand of the Church. The law of primogeniture, strictly enforced, 
iberty which it had been the especial care of his father and his great-grandfather to destroy. Most patiently did Philip, by his steady inactivity, bring about 
off again. It returned at last into the English ports, having accomplished nothing, and having expended superfluously a considerable amount of money and trouble
d. The beer became solid. The Spanish wine froze and had to be melted in saucepans. The smoke in the house blinded them. Fire did not warm them, and their garme
 of the States' army at the port of Ghent reached the sovereign's ears, he awoke from the delusion that danger was impending on his eastern border, and lost no 
 trade of war and the pursuit of military dominion, offered a strong contrast to the distracted condition of the holy Roman empire, where an intellectual and in
attle spread with unexampled rapidity, not only through the Netherlands but to neighbouring countries. On the night of the 7th July (N.S.) five days after the e
 world. Now there is no doubt whatever that the subsidies furnished by England to the common cause were very considerable, amounting in fourteen years, accordin
 the general reader. Let it suffice, that no torture ever invented by Torquemada or Peter Titelman to serve the vengeance of Philip and his ancestors or the pop
s of the States to frustrate the design--at a point commanding the course of both the Waal and the Meuse. Having placed a considerable garrison in each of those
fect sincerity of the States in their attitude to the queen and to Spain was unquestionable, and her ill-humour on the subject continued long after it had been 
 risking their own lives, they might have secured the pass of Leffingen, and made the capture of the archduke or his destruction inevitable. The city, which had
cribes to the bounty of a king who hated everything like popular rights, and loved nothing but his own glory and his own amusement. It was not until the days of
to espouse to take possession in her name of the very desirable property which she had thus acquired. It certainly never occurred, either to the giver or the re
is early stage of its progress, seemed not likely to call forth very fraternal feelings between the two families of Netherlanders. The army was in the main admi
nety-two years old Moral nature, undergoes less change than might be hoped More catholic than the pope Myself seeing of it methinketh that I dream Names history
quabbling ensued, growing almost into a quarrel between the burgher-soldiers and the peasants. As the altercation was at its height a heavy wagon, laden with lo
before one fourth of its own number. And this effect was a permanent one. Thenceforth for foreign powers to talk of mediation between the republic and the ancie
lustrate the enterprise of Holland in the East. In the age just opening the homely names most dear to the young republic were to be inscribed on capes, islands,
onwealth, was most favourably disposed towards projects of maritime exploration. For hitherto, although the Hollanders had been among the hardiest and the forem
 growing uneasy, for it was uncertain in what direction it might be intended to use this formidable force. It was perhaps the cardinal's intention to make a sud
ging them to join the league. "Especially should you do so," she said, "on account of the reputation which you will thereby gain for your affairs with the peopl
 WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundati
er consent to a peace with the rebels, except on the ground of the exclusive maintenance of the Catholic religion. He is taking the very course to destroy that 
case they might serve in Picardy, but nowhere else." An English garrison in a couple of French seaports, over against the English coast, would hardly have seeme
e waiting upon the wind and other enforced delays, more than two months had been consumed. Twenty-four hours would suffice at present for the excursion. At Saum
osition of Henry was essentially a false one from the beginning. He felt it to be so, and the ink was scarce dry with which he signed the new treaty before he w
dden death had nearly put an end to the sufferings of the whole party. Having brought a quantity of seacoal from the ship, they had made a great fire, and after
intrigues of his allies which had--brought a paralysis upon his arms which the blows of the enemy could hardly have effected, Maurice took the field in August: 
e few inventions in morals They liked not such divine right nor such gentle-mindedness They had come to disbelieve in the mystery of kingcraft Thirty thousand m
ble. This, according to his calculations, would be on the 10th February. Two days of mirky and stormy atmosphere succeeded, and those who had wagered in support
urt fatigue, to scorn pleasure Deal with his enemy as if sure to become his friend Decline a bribe or interfere with the private sale of places Disciple of Simo
e dead, her ghost still walked among the Jesuits and summoned them to complete the crimes left yet unfinished. But what was the design of the new confederacy? I
of Buzanval and other foreign agents, were destined to come to nothing. At a little later period, at the time of certain informal and secret conferences at Gert
Lord's Supper was administered to him. Subsequently, the same rites were more briefly performed every few days. His sufferings were horrible, but no saint could
e Waal and the Meuse. Having placed a considerable garrison in each of those strongholds, the admiral discontinued his labours and went into winter-quarters. Th
on of the young stadholder of Friesland, to suspend the existence of the whole commonwealth upon a silken thread. Even success, he prophesied, would bring no pe
 King of Spain up to the very moment, or beyond it, when they consented to acknowledge the sovereign of their own country. Scarcely a great name in the golden b
complete triumph and the utter overthrow of Maurice, who had now no means of escape. He stated also that he would very soon send the rebel stadholder himself to
upon the field of his glorious labours. Nearly six weeks longer they struggled amid tempestuous seas. Hugging the shore, ever in danger of being dashed to atoms
extreme north-eastern verge of Nova Zembla. Here a party going ashore climbed to the top of a rising ground, and to their infinite delight beheld an open sea en
letely turned, and which was as utterly disgraceful to Spain as that of Cateau Cambresis had been to France. He had spent his life in fighting with the spirit o
he Archbishop of Toledo, with the enormous annual revenue of three hundred thousand dollars. Next to him came the Archbishop of Seville, with one hundred and fi
 and the whole vast, almost innumerable armada, was soon standing out to sea. No more heroic decision was ever taken by fighting man. Sir Francis gave advice th
o a monarchical form of government as the best means of preserving the State. The envoys thanked the king for all the honours conferred upon them, but declared 
erms of surrender to the various garrisons, which, however, did not prevent them from being dearly--every man of them immediately butchered in cold blood. Thus 
landscapes, the stream which ran from Ostend towards the town of Nieuport flowing sluggishly through them. It was a bright warm midsummer day. The waves of the 
 Maurice. The prisoner was at once gagged, that he might spread his disheartening news no further, but as he persisted by signs and gestures in attempting to co
art with it. Then the prince returned to the king's chamber, followed by the secretary, who narrated to the dying monarch what had taken place. "You have done w
 his self-command when affairs seemed blackest. So soon, however, as the triumph, after wavering so long, was decided in his favour--the veteran legions of Spai
stately manner to a house called the king's mansion, which he politely placed at their disposal. "As we learned, however," says Barneveld, with grave simplicity
ragraph 1.E.8. 1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree t
ture possessed in those days by monarchs, statesmen, and diplomatists who were imagining that they held the world's destiny in their hands. There was this summe
ng her professions to Caron and others, would have gladly entered into negotiations with Philip, had she found the door as wide open as Henry had found it, he d
g monarch what had taken place. "You have done wrong," said Philip; whereupon Don Christopher, bowing to the earth, presented the key to the prince. The king th
