GREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE TH
y. That the standard of civilization was a vastly higher one in England, Holland, or even France--torn as they all were with perpetual civil war--no thinker wil
illa ASCII” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website (www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost,
undred yards in width; extended a level tract of those green fertile meadows, artificially drained, which are so characteristic a feature of the Netherland land
he fugitives, were killed. The Zeelanders, more cautious in the midst of their panic, or perhaps knowing better the nature of the country, were more successful 
, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works, harmless from all l■ability, costs and e
hallows as not to be navigable for his transports, and after his tra■ns of artillery and munitions had been dragged wearily overland as far as Groll, the deluge
 was the dismay in Ostend w■en Colonel Piron and a few stragglers brought the heavy news of discomfiture and massacre to the high and mighty States-General in s
plish this with his own resources or should require the assistance of the fleet at Ferrol. The king further suggested that the enemy, encouraged by his succe■s 
 her heart was not so alienated from peace; but that she could listen to propositions on the subject. She said, too, ■hat such a peace must be a general one, in
 all patience, and, on turning his prows once more southward, he had nearly brought his long expedition to a disastrous termination. Six well-armed, well-equipp
other form. Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1. 1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, vie
 At last an unaccustomed giddiness and f■intness came over them, of which they could not guess the cause, but fortunately one of the party had the instinct, bef
the United States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right 
 his victories--Results of the struggle between Freedom and Absolutism-- Affairs in the East--Amboyna taken by Van der Hagen--Contest for possession of the Clov
joy of the great triumph into lamentations--increased the animosity of his comrades. Moreover, in ransacking the Spanish admiral's ship, all his papers had been
o had done the wrong, that no practice could be more completely in harmony with reason and justice. Me■ntime the Spanish ambassador sold the prizes, and appropr
 how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and■how to subscribe to our email newsletter to
oject Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any Defect you cause. Section 2. Informat
d should pledge itself to chastise such of its citizens as might dare to undertake those voyages, as disturbers of the peace and enemies of the public repose, w
the stadholder, although with a slender force, had by means of his excellent organization and his profound practical science, achieved very considerable results
 arise directly or indirectly from any of the followin■ which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration,
urice, and contemporaries were enthusiastic over the science, the patience, the inventive ingen■ity which were at last crowned with success. The heroic Hernan T
gh■y, he decided that the operations on the Gullet or eastern side, including Bucquoy's dike, with Pompey Targone's perambulatory castles and floating batteries
ound, day after day, in the same vicious circle, without more hope of progress than squirrels in a cage. Barneveld, always overbearing with friend or foe, and o
his arrival they had been treated with more civility by the king. Previously he had refused to see them after the first official reception, had not been willing
 mounds of sand and rubbish, anything like order and regularity. Yet amid the chaos there was really form and meaning to those who could read aright, and Marque
and would not perpetually require the use of large armies. Where then could there be a better must■ring place for their forces than those very provinces, so eas
n the affray, with all on board. The rest ignominiously retreated. Had the enterprise been as well executed as it was safely planned, it would have gone hard wi
 social infamy to the remotest generation. As the awful consequences of religious freedom, men pointed with a shudder to the condition of nations already speedi
given up drinking w■ne, which, for a German, was considered a great sacrifice. She recompensed herself, as the king did, by eating to an extent which, according
GES - Except for the “Right of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project 
t protected by U.S. copyright ■aw means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in th
e, rule, and level, measuring out the bulwarks and bastions, the miniature salients, half-moons, and ditches, as neatly and methodically as if there were no cea
m her as soon as she arrived, refuse her nothing, conceal nothing from her, and tremble before her as usual. The king was not specially prejudiced in favour of 
 their minds, bodies, and estates. As a matter of course, he nominated and removed at will every executive functionary, every judge, every magistrate, every ■il
gn was in advance of his age. In his devotion to the Madonna he claimed the same miraculous origin for her mother as for herself. ■hen the prayer "O Sancta Mari
THE DEATH OF WILLIAM THE SILENT TO THE TWELVE YEAR'S TRUCE, 1600 *** Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will be renamed. Creating t
ht well hesitate. Nevertheless, Maurice had made up his mind. Sir Francis Vere and Marcellus Bax confirmed him in his determination, and spoke fiercely of the d
id by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License. 
d, of which Van der Does had a copy, so many discrepancies appeared that the document of the archdukes was at once rejected. But of course the monk had a number
e the provinces to their fate, but that the archdukes had offered, would ■e join his fortunes with theirs, to place him in a higher position over all the Nether
re protect the living, it can scarcely be doubted that they took ample revenge on the already sufficiently polluted atmosphere. On the 17th June the foe sprang 
sts of which the public revenue was composed. The great nobles, priests, and even the hidalgos, were exempt from taxation. Need more be said to indicate the ine
 long with a power which, after subjugating the Netherlands, would have liked to annihilate France and England too, and which, dur■ng that period, had done its 
ntercourse between the provinces and its own dominions, for fear of vengeance in the East. On the other hand, by denouncing oceanic commerce, they would soon fi
would cause detriment to the republic, and they might then put in its place the most ancient of all laws, 'salus populi suprema lex.'" The president, having sug
foe. He was there to share their fate, to conquer or to perish with them, and from their tried valour and from the God of battles he hoped a more magnificent vi
-hold in England, and he was to state immediately whether he could accomplish this with his own resources or should require the assistance of the fleet at Ferro
e has been no opportunity of judging of h■s labours by personal inspection. Those familiar with the dreary displays of his penmanship must admit that such work 
le, and to the inhabitants of every town and village, that their defenders were going to certain destruction; that the e■istence of the commonwealth was hanging
thousand ships in the■offing, which moved languidly along the sparkling sea. It was an atmosphere better befitting a tranquil holiday than the scene of carnage 
 father's crucifix was placed in his hands, ■nd he said distinctly, "I die like a good Catholic, in faith and obedience to the holy Roman Church." Soon after th
rson you received the work from. If you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. The person or entity t
opularity of the project-- Disaffection of the courtiers--Complaints against Spinola-- Conference of the Catholic party--Position of Henry IV. towards the repub
tronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcript
d because he was an Italian, because he was of a mercantile family, and because he had been successful, was now as much the object of contumely with the courtie
eficiency of coal, not then an article ■eadily obtained by commerce, with other remains of antediluvian forests long since buried in the sea, and now recovered 
your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org. Section 3. Information about the Project Gut
rization of the people, and by showing ourselves prompt to grant his request, he will be the very first to prevent us from taking any steps, in order that his r
he galleys, damaged, discomfited, laden with corpses and dripping with blood, rowed off i■to Sluys as speedily as they could move, without waiting until the com
rance into the sally port, was picked off by a sharpshooter, and died the next day. This seemed the necessary fate of the commandants of Ostend, where the opera
herland would have cause to thank him. Inspired only by the love of glory, he asked for no remuneration for his services save thirteen per cent. of the booty, a
their assailants. The advancing squadrons faltered, wheeled back upon the companies following them, and the whole mass of the republican cavalry broke into wild
town was to be restored to him, while they were to take temporary possession of the city of Grave. They were likewise to assist, with all their strength, in his
Gutenberg™ License must appear prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with whi
however, were very few Hollanders and Zeelande■s, from which races the navy, both public and mercantile, was almost wholly supplied. The revenue of the United P
 destined for the coast of Ireland having been dispersed and drawn to the other aide of the world by these demonstrations of her ally. For this she vowed that s
hose of the more exalted Leaguers with whom he had dealt. The "good old fellow," as Henry familiarly called him, had not filled his pockets either in serving or
the Spanish had hardly lost a man. The archduke had annihilated his enemy, ha■ taken his artillery and thirty flags. In great exultation he despatched a messeng
tes, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook. Title: History of the United Netherlands from the Death of Wi
lazy. For a people endowed by nature with many noble qualities--courage, temperance, frugality, endurance, quickness of perception; a high sense of honour, a re
l-known melody of "Wilhelmus of Nassau," once so dear to every patriotic heart in Antwerp, and perhaps causing many a renegade cheek on this occasion to tingle 
bsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. Voluntee
ssary to reduce this work at once, unless he were willing to abandon his enterprise. He sent back to Cadzand for artillery, but it was flood-■tide, the waters w
under Solms, and the rearguard under Tempel--then slowly and with difficulty moved along the same dangerous path with the water as high as their armpits, and of
y did not intend to adorn his own person therewith. "The hat was ever held out," said a splenetic observer, "and it was filled in overflowing measure by the new
S TRUCE, 1603-04 *** Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will be renamed. Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.
ommonwealth. She would hardly have been a very powerful one, with her half-dozen cities, one prelate, one nobleman, her hundred thousand burghers at most, bustl
ous annual revenue of three hundred thousand dollars. Next to him came the Archbishop of Seville, with one hundred and fifty thousand dollars yearly, while the 
ar been frivolously consuming time. As to the form of government, defective though it was, the leaders of the republic knew very well in whose interests such sl
ison, and regularly■furnished advice and instructions as to their proceedings. He was moreover ever ready to take the field for a relieving campaign. Nothing wa
or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writ
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distr
Church government, if only the king could be pope; not knowing, indeed, whether a Puritan, or a Jesuit whom he called a Papist-Puritan, should be deemed the mor
 carouse, were prepared after breakfast next morning to resume the interrupted negotiations. But affairs were now to take an unexpected turn. In the night the w
efeated enemy. It had been gained by their own right hands; by the blood, and the gold, and the sweat of two generations. If it were the king's to give, let him
ops to go off scot free, saying that there had been blood enough shed that day. Every standard borne by the Spaniards in the battle-thirty-eight in number--was 
ven his ultimatum. Richardot acknowledged that he had something in reserve, upon which the monk said that it was time to m■ke it known. Accordingly--the two bei
pain. His Majesty wishes your Mightinesses prosperity with all his heart, yea so that he would rather lose his right arm than see your Mightinesses in danger. B
sels followed in the wake of the great galleys. The sails of the admiral's little fleet flapped idly against the mast. He could only placidly await the onset. T
 an address of ceremony. He besought the king not to permit S■ain, standing on the neck of the provinces, to grasp from that elevation at other empires. He remi
ll more amazing that its rejection by Maurice should have been bitterly censured. Two-thirds of the army lay on the other side of the harbour, and it was high w
License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to o
, had sufficient influence over his comrades to inflame their zeal on this occasion for the fame of the republic, and to induce them to give the Indian princes 
nd three hundred prisoners, eleven officers among them. The Sweet was now in the stadholder's possession. Next day he marched against the Salt, at a pass where 
m copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of co
of his ■ife from youth upwards to establish over the world, became a loathsome and impossible nuisance everywhere but in its natal soil. If there be such a thin
ndred additional soldiers the outer works might still be manned and the city saved. The officers English, Dutch, and French, listened respectfully to his remark
 perpetual levy of contributions in kind, and it is only in this vague and unsatisfactory manner that the revenues of his empire can be stated. A despot really 
58.] CHAPTER XLVIII. Internal condition of Spain--Character of the people--Influence of the Inquisition--Population and Revenue--Incomes of Church and Governmen
bliged to content themselves with condemned criminals, and with the few other wretches whom abject poverty and the impossibility of earning other wages could in
NY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTIC
n account of their adventures. They had been absent seventeen months, they had spent a whole autumn, winter, and spring--nearly ten months--under the latitude o
 is no extrication. We are marching to the Caudine Forks." Certainly it is no small indication of the vast influence and the indomitable resolution of Barneveld
all the troops. But he was over-ruled, for Maurice had expressly enjoined upon his cousin that morning to defer in all things to the orders of Vere. These eight
gued by the march. Should he remain where he was he would soon be starved into submission, and would be obliged to surrender his whole army. On the o■her hand, 
agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted■
ngenious one than the famous plot b■ which the Spanish Government was suspected but a few years before to have so nearly succeeded in blowing the king, peers, a
hether or no she intended to send her commissioners. At last he asked her the question bluntly. "Hallo! Hallo!" she replied. "I have only spoken to my servant o
produced by David Widger [NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the file for those who ■ay wish to sample the author's ideas befo
n and arrangements of certain large districts of this planet. While the world-empire, which still excited so much dismay, was yielding to constant corrosion, an
ty a different scene was enacting. Those dignified Spaniards--governor Serrano and Don Matteo Antonio--having slept off their carouse, were prepared after break
ome in the water, expert in handling vessels, and excellent cannoneers, were more than a match for twenty times their number of landsmen. It was a very simple-m
the course of events been different--over the protective rivers and marshes of the fatherland, now changed by the exceptional cold into solid highways for invas
e of the States-General on the groundwork of the treaty-- Meeting of the plenipotentiaries for arrangement of the truce-- Signing of the twelve years' truce--It
on from the war footing of fifteen thousand men. Of the force retained, four thousand were a French legion maintained by the king, two thousand other French at 
d, by advancing now, in the intolerable heat of a July sun over the burning and glaring sands,■the troops already wearied would arrive on the field of battle ut
ed on his son, a funded revenue of seven hundred thousand a year. He had besides, in cash, jewels, and furniture, an estimated capital of six millions. All this
e, he declared it to be an offence against the religious res■ect due to ambassadors, whose persons and property were sacred in foreign countries. "Decency requi
he menace, which could hardly have been seriously intended. Within a week from the time of his departure from the Hague to engage in this daring adventure, the 
t of these three works was the key to the fortifications of the old or outer town. The other two were very near it, and were the principal redoubts which■defend
 but that the garrisons throughout the five provinces ought to be redoubled, and the war with Spain indefinitely waged. The President was likewise of opinion th
rreparable fault," he said, "on so insecure a foundation. You are deceiving yourselves: And, in order that there may be no doubt on the subject, we declare to y
articularly, because of the affection which I know he cherishes for me, of his firmn■ss in our religion, and of his fidelity to his master." Much more that was 
in a previous chapter, the Spaniards had swept down upon them from the Philippines with a fleet of thirty-seven ships, and had taken captive the Sultan of Terna
ession to organize a great force in Holland and Zeeland, and to embark suddenly for Nieuport, to carry that important position by surprise or assault, and from 
ris was all that was now interposed between Maurice and the much-coveted Swint. This redoubt, armed with nine guns, and provided with a competent, garrison, was
fied and despondent, to Vienna. The Prince of Transylvania retreated into the depths of his own principality. Mahomet, with his principal officers, shut himself
ain had originally pretended to yield, it was the opinion of the old diplomatist that the king should be permitted to wear the paste substitutes about which so 
--could not fail to be manifested whenever, great negotiations with foreign powers were to be undertaken. To obtain the unanimous consent of seven independent l
urther precaution, Prince Maurice ordered all garrisons in the strong places to be doubled, lest the slippery enemy should take advantage of too much confidence
school before he can become a general, and we must beware of committing any second folly, govern ou■selves according to our means and the art of war, and leave 
dy, but nowhere else." An English garrison in a couple of French seaports, over against the English coast, would hardly have seemed a sufficient inducement to o
 take from a special shrine--which he had indicated to him six years before--a crucifix which the emperor his father had held upon his d■ath-bed. All this was a
he lot of thousands of innocent men and women at the hands of Philip's soldiers in a country at peace with Philip, at the very moment when that monarch was prot
n insurrection, but obtained nothing but a feeble cannonade from the fortifications which did no damage except the killing of one muleteer. The next night was p
 marquis had, meantime, obtained information on which he relied, that this ambassador would come charged with very advantageous offers to the English court. Acc
 they were acts of virtue. Perhaps he really believed them to be such, for a man, before whom so many millions of his fellow worms had been writhing for half a 
the Balearic■islands to boot. The King of Spain claimed, as we have seen often enough, not only Brittany but all France as his lawful inheritance. Such was the 
attack upon England. Thus there was a whole ocean between the disputants. Vere and Gilpin were protocolling and marshalling accounts at the Hague, and conductin
ueen of England require information on this great matter of state. It was cruel trifling therefore, it was inhuman insolence on her part, to suggest anything li
, lace-manufacturers, shopkeepers, and, above all, the India merchants and stockholders in the great commercial companies for the East and West, lifted up their
y the king hereditary sovereigns of the Netherlands, and why do they append the seals of the seven United Provinces to this document?" asked the Advocate, takin
to be the harbinger of a political millennium, and he heartily despised war. The schemes, nevertheless, which were as much his own as his master's, and which he
 Truce--1609 By John Lothrop Motley MOTLEY'S HISTORY OF THE NETHERLANDS, Project Gutenberg Edition, Vol. 81 History of the United Netherlands, 1608(a) CHAPTER L
were these unfortunate infant■ to give rise, and how distant the period when great nations might no longer be tied to the pinafores of children in the nursery! 
as to make it impossible that they should proceed from the same persons and the same mind. Agitated and urged by their pride and arrogance alone, they take all 
 to judge righteously between him and them." Party spirit has rarely run higher in any commonwealth than in Holland during these memorable debates concerning a 
ed, until more than two centuries later the accuracy of the Dutch commander was recognised. The rediscovered land however no longer bears his name, but has been
repairing the cathedral, being estimated at three hundred thousand dollars a year, that of the Archbishop of Seville and the others varying from one hundred and
 moment in history, in the most conspicuous position in Christendom, and in a great war, now narrowed down to a single spot of earth, on which the eyes of the w
e Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax retur
ght have been safe within the fortifications. Had these cavalry companies of Bruges and Pir■n been even tolerably self-possessed, had they concentrated themselv
e was sold at auction, mitres were objects of public barter, Church preferments were bestowed upon female children in their cradles. Yet there was hope in Franc
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payme
nt, it may well be believed that Duplessis Mornay would find but little sunshine from on high on the occasion of his famous but forgotten conferences with Du Pe
The Spanish commissioners were infamous swindlers, it was loudly asserted. There should be no more dealings with them at all. Spain was a power only to be treat
e a portion of his armies to observe his indefatigable and scientific enemy, as to much weaken the vigour of the operations before Ostend. Moreover, the execrab
ed to the Memnonite religion, with its doctrines of non-resistance--not a very comfortable practice in that sanguinary age--were his constant victims. And his c
 regard he was general■y successful. Within the town were fifty-nine companies of infantry, to which were soon added twenty-three more under command of young Ch
 last obtained permission to depart to repair his broken health. He was succeeded in command of the forces within the town by Charles Van der Noot, colonel of t
akes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States. 1.E. Unless you have removed all references to 
o thousand five hundred strong, he would dispose of a force of fifteen thousand veterans, and he m■ved at once to relieve the besieged mutineers. His cousin Fre
ly than the preceding night had done, so far as Vere's two guests were concerned. Several distinguished officers were present at the festive board: Captain Mont
ds. A few small vessels of the expedi■ion succeeded in reaching the Flemish coast, and landing a slight portion of the terzo. The campaign of 1605 opened but la
 That princes should make concessions so entirely unworthy of their grandeur, excited at once our suspicion, for we could not imagine the cause of an offer so s
 for the troops, established itself throughout Flanders and Brabant. There was much recrimination on the subject of the invasion of the Rhenish duchies, and a w
. The ascendency of Barneveld was the less wholesome, therefore, and it might have been better had the stadholder manifested more resolution. But Maurice had no
g personally to the front, had caused such a clangor from all the drums and trumpets in Broek and its neighbourhood to be made as to persuade the restive cavalr
 when deserting the League. Placed in control of the exchequer at a later period, he was never accused of robbery or peculation. He was a hard- working, not ove
owing the course marked out for them by their employers, and thus diminished in numbers, half-stripped of provisions, and enfeebled by the exhausting atmosphere
ed the decayed intelligence of antique strategy, that the greybeards of Europe became docile pupils in their school. The mathematical teacher of Prince Maurice 
Provinces under subjection to the archdukes. It had even been proposed that he should sign a secret convention to that effect, and there were those about the co
these previous engagements and free to act concerning those cities in an honourable and reasonable manner, as became a friendly king? Meantime the garrisons sho
pany with young Coligny--a lad of his own age, and like himself a grandson of the great admiral--the youth who was one day to play so noble a part on the stage 
nt arose in wrath from his seat at the council-board, loudly protesting that the King of Spain would never renounce his sovereignty over the provinces until the
 dais in order to greet the ambassador. He would have descended them all had not one of the counsellors plucked him by the sleeve, whispering that he had gone q
certainly; for France was not Spain, nor was Henry IV. a Philip II■. The Huguenot duke was an inferior financier to his Spanish contemporary, if it were the hei
 palace would be beleaguered by an army of courtiers, envoys, and contractors, who had paid solid gold for admission, and who were often sent away grumbling and
ts and floods before there had been time for him to produce much effect. It seemed plain enough to the besieged that the object of the enemy would be to work hi
 to every one of their ships, and retired into their fortress, while Matelieff and his men enjoyed the great conflagration as idle spectators. Thus the enterpri
ng the siege was as noble a monument as had ever been raised by a free people jealous of its fame. And the scientific lustre of the university well susta■ned th
 but most obedient of princes, annoyed but not disconcerted, sent off the troops but continued his demonstration. "By this specimen," cried the French envoy, wi
d thus by the indication of a policy that might last to the Greek Kalends, and permit Ostend, Dutch Flanders, and even the republic to fall--nothing but that mi
made against any further attempt. For in the opening period of the new century thousands and tens of thousands were to come to those yellow sands, not for a mid
han the pope Myself seeing of it methinketh that I dream Names history has often found it convenient to mark its epochs National character, not the work of a fe
to save a whole nation from the disasters and the degradation which the mere words Philip II, and the Holy Inquisition suggest to every educated mind. Nor is it
s very severe. The quotas for the provinces had risen to the amount of five million eight hundred thousand florins for the year 1599, against an income of four 
erint.' If one of the great objects of a civilized community is to secure to all men their own■-'ut sua tenerent'--surely it must be admitted that the republic 
and death between the champions of the Papacy and of Protestantism, of the Republic and of absolutism, that was to be fought out that midsummer's day. The lists
refully collated by the States. "It is true," said the auditor, "that the original is not made out in Latin nor in French as your lordships demanded, but in Spa
 United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the ter
the king in the most unsophisticated of costumes, striding up and down the room, with his hands clasped together behind his head, and with an expression of agon
he left was Van der Noot's Zeeland infantry, garnished with four companies of riders under Risoir, which stood near St. Mary's church. The passage from the stre
le word, I made him feel the absurdity of his language. Now, endeavouring to intimidate me, he exaggerated the strength of England, and again he enlarged upon t
hatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. 
urk, addressed a letter to the States of Holland, Zeeland, and the provinces confederated with them. Reminding them of ■he care ever taken by himself and his fa
en furnishing the treasure to support Spanish tyranny, and it was the dearest object of Netherland ambition to confront their enemy in both those regions, and t
mirers as uniting the wisdom of the serpent with the guilelessness of the dove. Who better than he then, in this double capacity, to coil himself around the reb
n could impose. So Berendrecht, as vigilant and devoted as even Peter Gieselles had ever been, now succeeded to the care of the Polders and the Porcupines, and 
f your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based o
season, transferred the command at Ostend to Frederic van Dorp, a rugged, hard-headed, ill-favoured, stout-hearted Zealand colonel, with the face of a bull-dog,
ile he hesitated between plunging without a clue into the watery maze around him, and returning discomfited from the expedition on which such high hopes had bee
lay down conditions under which the king would not really be their master; especially if France and England should guarantee them against any infraction of thei
in that great fundamental resolution, at all times and against all men, even if this should cause the departure of the enemy's commissioners. What can you expec
ran Vere, had fallen; his cousin Lewis was now as utterly overthrown as his brother Ernest had been but a few hours before at t■e fatal bridge of Leffingen; the
 scorn to the antiquated claim of sovereignty on the part of imperial majesty. Duly authenticated by citations of investitures, indulgences, and concordates, en
gerated and imaginary satire, but ■ monument of wickedness and insanity such as is not often seen in human history. Already, in the very first years of the cent
■ to accept the bill of exchange and the diamond, apprising Prince Maurice and Olden- Barneveld of the fact, however, on his return to the Hague. Being subseque
nslated it out of Dutch into French. She then expressed unbounded admiration of the States-General and of Prince Maurice. The sagacious administration of the St
e centre of their ruined little nest, where they must burrow until the enemy should have leisure to entirely unearth them, which woul■ be a piece of work very e
tle man, with pink cheeks, flaxen hair, and yellow beard, with a melancholy expression of eye, and protruding under lip and jaw, he was now comparatively alert 
re in the United State■ and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it unde
e bound by one interest should now, he urged, unite their efforts, the Spaniard, deprived not only of the Netherlands, but, if he were not wise in time, banishe
eries of Calatrava, Alcantara, Santiago, and all the rest of those knightly orders, as then existing, to respond to the noble sentiments on which all were suppo
ood. Whether the foremost power of the world, thus governed, were likely to continue the foremost power, could hardly seem doubtful to those accustomed to use t
d were killed outright in half-an-hour's assault on an impregnable position one autumn evening, and lay piled in heaps beneath the Sand Hill fort-many youthful 
neveld was, he said, inclined to doubt whether the archdukes would be able, before any negotiations were begun, to comply with the demand which he had made upon
h not one man in a thousand had ever heard. Spinola had doubtless shown genius of a subtle and inventive order, and his fortunate audacity in measuring himself,
om the galleys, and five hundred maidens provided with marriage portions. After these elaborate instructions had been read, the king ordered a certain casket to
ded the first trading settlement of the Batavian republic in the archipelago of the equator--the foundation-stone of a great commercial empire which was to enci
the auspices of self-government; self-help, political freedom, free thought, and unshackled science, was then to undertake--never more perhaps to be permanently
e geographical investigation made, and, with unquestionable right; these earliest arctic pilgrims bestowed the names of their choice upon the regions first visi
on, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreeme
al medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a repla
attempt to revive the demon whose thirst for blood had been at last allayed, and who had sunk into repose. And it was a spasmodic revival only, for, in the prov
northern passage, with a proportionate sum to those whose efforts in that direction might be deemed commendable, even if not crowned with success. Stimulated by
 United States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to 
s to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™ concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except b
could keep enough of them within the walls to guard the city against possible accident, now that the work was done. Even had they taken the field a few hours ea
that he was probably beginning to find a quiet and agreeable life more to his taste. She expressed the hope, however, that he would acquit himself honourably to
w your duty to humble yourself before God, and to acknowledge that it is He alone who has thus honoured you . . . . You should reverence Him the more, that whil
, Marquette, made them all l■ft up their hands, and swear solemnly to live or die that day at the feet of Prince Maurice. Two hours long these two armies had st
character than were the fierce dogmas of Calvin. But the struggle, either to force Arminianism upon the Church which considered itself the established one in th
 republicans. Next day he made a desperate assault with three thousand men and some companies of cavalry, upon Lewis William's quarters, where he had reason to 
 as an article of bargain with a foreign power, was not only to abase the gov■rnment of the States but to convert every sincere Catholic throughout the republic
tion’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake C■ty, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to date contact information can b
s difficulties than your predecessors or myself have been able to do." The beautiful white horse which the archduke had ridden during the battle fell into the h
by your equipment. 1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gu
d; had tried his chance for fame and fortune in the naval service, and had lost his life in the adventure without achieving the one or the other. This was not a
gh and dry beyond their reach. The scene was transformed as if by magic, and the battle was now to be fought out in those shifting, uneven hills and hollows, wh
t their fire from cannon, demi- cannon, culverin, and snaphance, with fatal effect. The assailants, thinned, straggling, but undismayed, closed up their ranks, 
il were vehement; passion rose to fever-heat, but the stadholder, although often half beside himself with rage, ended by submitting once more to the will of Bar
 estates. As a matter of course, he nominated and removed at will every executive functionary, every judge, every magistrate, every military or civil officer; a
wives and children, all which property was to be brought in and deposited in the hands of the proper functionaries of the archduke's camp, in order that it migh
etary of Ostend before and during the siege, bravest, most conscientious, and most ingenious of clerks--has chronicled faithfully in his diary almost ev■ry cann
etherlands and nowhere else to anything like the same extent--that such opinions, on a subject deemed vital to the very existence of the republic, were freely p
n Ostend were at their last gasp. On being asked by the States-General whether it was possible to hold out for twenty days longer, Marquette called a council of
 of truce. The proposition, he said, was simply the expression of a wish to destroy the State. Holland and Zeelan■ would never agree to any such measure, and th
rld had lived in former ages very comfortably without cloves. But by the beginning of the s■venteenth century that odoriferous pistil had been the cause of so m
Ryck, and others among them. As it was strict fast for the Catholics that evening--while on the other hand the English, still reckoning according to the old sty
r passing those straits, the shores of the great continent would be found to trend in a south-easterly direction, and that along that coast it would accordingly
ince■Maurice one- thirtieth, and the merchant stockholders the remainder. Governors and generals were to take the oath of fidelity to the States-General. The me
the treaty duly ratified by Henry. The league was then solemnized, on, the 26th August, by the queen with much pomp and ceremony. Three peers of the realm waite
 extrication. We are marching to t■e Caudine Forks." Certainly it is no small indication of the vast influence and the indomitable resolution of Barneveld that 
s of popular right rather than on that of municipal privilege. The singular docility of the Dutch people, combined with the simplicity, honesty, and practical s
g and shattering the devoted town. The waters rose over dyke and parapet, and the wind swept from the streets and ramparts every living thing. Not a soldier or 
e and seals being duly inspected by the members. Neyen was then asked if he had anything to say in public. He replied in the negative, adding only a few vague c
rt republic, that merchants, manufacturers, and farmers, mechanics and advocates--the People, in short--should presume to meddle with affairs of state? Their vo
main and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest array of equipmen■ including outdated equipment. Many s
een preserved by capricious Accident as heroes and legislators. Yet there is no doubt that, while comparatively powerless for good, the individual despot is cap
ed by ill luck were at once executed. The twelfth, a comely youth, was pardoned at the in■ercession of a young girl. It is not stated whether or not she became 
tions are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States. U.S. laws alone 
ly, be in future observed. A proper self-respect required the king to keep the universe in suspense for a still longer period upon the royal will and the decisi
y prejudiced in favour of the French monarch or his ambassador, f■r he had been told that Henry had occasionally spoken of him as captain of arts and doctor of 
ng, a despatch-bearer arrived with letters from Vere to Cecil, and from the States-General to Caron, dated on the 3rd July. There could no longer be any doubt o
 cardinal that C■lais was to be given up if the French made its restitution a sine qua non. So Villeroy did make it a sine qua non, and the conferences soon aft
emonstrances of the commanders, pushed their way back to the shore which they had left. From that time forth, the States' troops, in efficient numbers, fringed 
d blustering spring. On the 13th of April a hurricane, such as had not occurred since the siege began; raged across the ocean, deluging and shattering the devot
o show whether it would be a profitable one, or whether Maurice, who was the preceptor of Europe in the art of war, would continue to be a docile pupil of the g
 their banquets by hosts of lackeys on their knees--Nottinghams, Northamptons, Suffolks--were, after all, ciphers or at best, mere pensioners of Spain. For all 
 summon the king to fulfil his solemnly sworn covenants with the league. The States-General had never doubted, they said, that so soon as the enemy had begun to
hich Philip III. could thoroughly comprehend, even if it be assumed that the monarch was at all consulted in regard to this most important tran■action of his li
 the Staten in what in those days was considered great haste to prevent a conclusion of a treaty between their two allies and the common enemy. They had been to
and the wholesome thrift of the burgher authorities, were contented, obedient, well fed, well clothed, and well paid; devoted to their Government, and ever read
ived (bankruptcy) They liked not such divine right nor such gentle-mindedness Whether murders or stratagems, as if they were acts of virtue CHAPTER XXXIV. 1598 
f veterans to hold Oudenburg and the other forts, and to protect the rear of the invading ■rmy, was accomplishing that object by permitting a large portion of h
s-General promptly sent out a company or two so soon as the news of the victory reached them to seize this vital point, the doom of the archduke would have been
should go forward to meet Spinola, by saying that he would do so willingly if it were to give him battle; otherwise not. Olden-Barneveld urged upon him however 
ircumstances then existing would not only over- burthen hi■ with expense, but make him a more conspicuous mark than ever for the assassin. It is certain that th
 might not be established on their soil to the suppression of all their political and religious institutions. The war which those high-born "beggars" had then k
nd, but fled wildly in every direction, and were shot and stabbed by the republicans as they fled. The Admiral of Arragon fell with his hackney■in this last cha
f effecting the palingenesis of Europe. Yet no doubt Sully--as the world has so long learned to call him--was actuated by lofty ■entiments in many respects in a
hange of prisoners of war.--[Grotius] While Maurice was occupied with the siege of Grave, and thus not only menacing an important position, but spreading, dange
lot thus to deprive the provinces of their India trade was supposed by the statesmen of the republic to have been formed in connivance with Spain. That power, f
iscrowned. The same archduke who, thirty years before, had slipped away from Vienna in his nightgown; with his face blackened, to outwit and outgeneral William 
 that the attempt would be made. It is always difficult to reform wide-spread abuses, even when they are acknowledged to exist, but when gigantic vices are prou
o both; many of them still wealthy, notwithstanding the general ruin which had swept over the high nobility, and all of them with vast influence and a splendid 
 any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intelle
 points; sovereigns and politicians having always a fondness for a neat summary in five or six points. Number one, to remodel the electoral system of the holy R
est of beings. To please him she had upon her marriage given up drinking wine, which, for a German, was considered a great sacrifice. She recompensed herself, a
ed, were for several days excluded from his presence. Meantime the army, disappointed, discontented, half-starved, unpaid, passed their days and nights as befor
, sent them securely guarded in a boat on board one of the war-ships in the offing. With perfect cheerfulness he then continued his preparations, consulting wit
sh Government should recede from the three points thus offered by Verreycken. This certainly was not a very blasting reply, and the Spanish agents were so far f
wenty years, on the express ground that the archdukes ■egarded the United Provinces as free countries, over which their Highnesses pretended to no authority. Th
hich had political power, perfect intolerance for all others; despotic forms of polity, except for two little republics which were to be smothered with protecti
of Europe was for a long time to be steadily fixed. Ostend--East-end--was the only possession of the republic in Flanders. Having been at last thoroughly fortif
 which has the main■PG search facility: www.gutenberg.org. This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how to make donations to the Pr
enveloped by the enemy. Fortunately Prince Maurice had foreseen the danger, and had ordered all the cavalry to the meadows so soon as the charge was made. Capta
 choice to make peace on the basis of free trade; to make peace, leaving everything beyond the Tropic of Cancer to the chance of war; or to make peace in regard
them a great deal of mischief. They knew very well that the King of France did not love her. Nevertheless, as they had resolved upon a general peace, they were 
erienced soldier Sir Francis Vere. Besides Prince Maurice, there were three other members of the house of Nassau serving in the expedition--his half-brother Fre
ith modern times, and especially with the gigantic comme■cial strides of the two great Anglo-Saxon families, the statistics both of population and of maritime c
d their conquerors the Spaniards, and that the Dutch--of whom they had recently heard, and the portrait of whose great military chieftain they had seen after th
inexorable volunteer from Genoa. Yet on the 27th August there was great rejoicing in the beleaguered town. Cannon thundered salutes, bonfires blazed, trumpets r
 history and horrible institutions had converted them at home. It is only necessary to recal these well-known facts to understand why one great element of produ
ep it, and so occupied with pursuits most apt for acquiring it, that they had come to be the sponge of Spanish wealth. The best proof of this, continued the rev
ke, but the republicans were too quick for them, and "drove them out of the place." The stadholder, thus obtaining an unexpected passage into Flanders, conceive
the Duke of Novara was to appear, bearing the crown on an open salver, covered with a black cloth, while the Marquis of Avillaer carried the sword of state. The
re was no dry land for cavalry or artillery to move, Maurice ordered the nine guns to be carried back to Cadzand that night, betaking himself, much disappointed
ble results. Before the close of, the previous year that great commercial corporation had been founded--an empire within an empire; a republic beneath a republi
osed to have said, "that the arrival of these honourable negotiators is most grateful to me. Time, whose daughter is truth, will show the faith to be given to m
and in public or in private--not even in bed--and the king was closely questioned whether these orders had been obeyed. She submitted without a struggle. She sa
 which they had received, that those commissioners should return to their labours. Ogle and Fairfax still remained as hostages in camp, and of course professed 
rld was to pause and the course of events to flow backwards. Truly, despots and their lackeys were destined to learn some rude lessons from that vigorous little
ution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply
 the enterprise with the vast expeditions and gigantic armaments of later times, especially with the tremendous exhibitions of military and naval energy with wh
were occupied with their own affairs. In proportion to their numbers, they were more productive of wealth than any other nation then existing. An excellent reas
, which God forbid, how much strength and encouragement will be acquired by the foe, and by all who secretly or openly favo■r him! Our neighbours are all strain
had been the Duke of Muscovy. The opportunity seemed tempting to strike a great blow. How could Albert and Isabella, with an empty exchequer and a mutinous army
upplies and his fleet, and therefore from all possibility of carrying out his design or effecting his escape to Zeeland. Certainly thus far, fortune had favoure
nce on her part, to suggest anything like a retu■n of the States to the dominion of Spain. But her desire for peace and her determination to get back her money 
te on her side, and anon righting again as the ice-masses would for■a moment float away and leave her breathing space and room to move in. A blinding snow-storm
eft out of leading strings, a thorough recasting of governments and races, a palingenesis of Europe, a nominal partition of■its hegemony between France and Engl
se to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragr
duce her to listen to a single word, although the perfect sincerity of the States in their attitude to the queen and to■Spain was unquestionable, and her ill-hu
 swallowed up such sovereignty, have annexed all the buckwheat patches and cranberry marshes of Overyssel to his own meagre territories, and nobody the wiser. Z
ound would permit, he had ■he disappointment, on approaching the fatal point at about eight o'clock, to see the bridge at Leffingen in the possession of the ene
rked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gu
 cynicism, coming from the lips of one of the most experienced diplomatists of Europe, was difficult to gainsay. Speaking as one having authority, the president
into, the enemy's hands; the transports under a strong convoy of war-ships having been directed to proceed as fast as the wind would permit in the direction of 
ronic works Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with any
 very great display of science in the encounter; yet Captain Jacob Michelzoon, with two enemy's ships thus stuck to his sides, might well have given himself up 
d to■be near their termination. Yet months were consumed in a journey which in our day would have been accomplished in twenty-four hours. And now in this great 
 copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as sp
copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, 
he waves of the German Ocean came lazily rolling in upon the crisp yellow sand, the surf breaking with its monotonous music at the very feet of the armies. A ge
nd you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in parag
ssacre on submission, which had been the lot of so many Dutch ■arrisons in the earlier stages of the war. Retreat by sea was ever open to the Ostend garrison, a
 This eBook was produced by David Widger [NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the file for those who may wish to sample the aut
t Gutenberg™ electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate ■r corrupt
ce, the whole commonwealth was inspired by the divine influence of liberty, her power will no longer seem so wonderful. A sinister event in the Isle of Ceylon h
 in the mind of Prince Maurice, after this letter had been well pondered, that Barneveld had won the game, and that the peace party had triumphed. To resume the
printed, and published. The document, being nothing less than the original secret instructions of the archdukes to their commissioners, was naturally read with 
the States, except the slender garrisons absolutely necessary to protect important places from surprise; that a defeat woul■ not be simply disaster, but annihil
 have to check the laws of the country where you are located before u■ing this eBook. 1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is derived from
d the coast, while the cardinal-archduke on the other side fondly hoped that its possession would give him supremacy on the sea. The States of Flanders declared
petty princes and commonwealths, who for the first time ware learning that there were other white men in the world beside the Portuguese, had already led to con
chemes of substantial negotiation were regarded by the public as visions, while the monk on his part felt the need of all his tact and temper to wind his way ou
 on land, in the sea, and on icebergs. When aware of the approach of their human visitors, they would slide off an iceblock into the water, holding their cubs i
se, but when they reached the presence of Sir Francis Vere they found that warrior in a towering passion. There was cheating going on, he exclaimed. The Spaniar
to give these extracts from his discourse, because comparatively few of such utterances of Maurice have been preserved, and because it gives a vivid impression 
t triumph of the Dutch commonwealth was to be registered before the forum of Christendom at the congress of Westphalia, and in which the solemn trial and execut
estiny affected by the different material agencies which man at various epochs has had at his disposal. The human creatu■e in his passions and ambitions, his se
e out of my memory how the fruits of the earth, growing trees, and dumb beasts appear to mortal eye." He then, with whimsical indignation, alludes to a cer■ain 
ost of them escaped through the hollow into the morass beyond. The musketeers of Sultz's regiment hardly fired a shot, and fell back in confusion upon the thick
ry clumsy and unsatisfactory way, no doubt--at sixty millions of dollars. Thus the income of the priesthood was ten per cent. of the whole funded estate of the 
ude lessons from that vigorous little commonwealth Spain was governed by an established terrorism Spaniards seem wise, and are madmen Strangled his nineteen bro
** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE UNITED NETHERLANDS FROM THE DEATH OF WILLIAM THE SILENT TO THE TWELVE YEAR'S TRUCE, 1600 *** This eBook w
 from the feeble king. Before Elizabeth was in her grave, he was already as much the favourite of her successor as of herself, governing Scotland as well as Eng
anding the approaches against the Polder, was killed. On the 21st March, as Peter Orieselles was taking his scrambling dinner in company with Philip Fleming, th
erg web pages for current donation methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks, online payments and credit card don
d however changed the aspect of India and of the world. The Portuguese adventurers found two rival kings--in the two precious islands, and by ingeniously protec
, and in w■ich enrolment was usually for life. A little republic of scarce three million souls, which could keep always on foot a regular well-appointed army of
e age of four years were retained, of course without their parents, from whom they were forever separated. With admirable forethought, too, the priests took mea
 work associated in any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project G■tenberg™ License available with t
g an entire meal of them. D.W.] HISTORY OF THE UNITED NETHERLANDS From the Death of William the Silent to the Twelve Year's Truce--1609 By John Lothrop Motley M
parkling sea. It was an atmosphere better befitting a tranquil holiday than the scene of carnage which se■med approaching. Maurice of Nassau, in complete armour
und the old town. The Bredene dyke crept on inch by inch, but the steady ships of the republic came and went unharmed by the batteries with which Bucquoy hoped 
to behold. The rumour had spread through the provinces, and was on the wing to all foreign countries, that Ostend had capitulated, an■ that the commissioners we
 given great satisfaction to the States, nor added much to the military reputation of Maurice. While he hesitated between plunging without a clue into the water
st troops of the stadholder were slain, while the Spanish had hardly lost a man. The archduke had annihilated his enemy, had taken his artillery and thirty flag
ct Gutenberg™ License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™. 1.E.5. Do not copy
d catch them little by little, like so many wild animals? This was not the way the States dealt with the archdukes. What they meant they put in front-- first, l
iendship of Spain to an alliance, offensive and defensive, with France in favour of a republic which they detested, is certain. It is difficult, however, to und
ans met in deadly shock. More than an hour long they contended with varying success. Musketeers, pikemen, arquebusmen, swordmen, cha■ged, sabred, or shot each o
ndignation, and favoured a search for the anonymous author, in order that he might be severely punished. It seems strange enough that anonymous letters picked u
 other creeds, but from larger views of what was then called tolerance, and from practical regard for the necessities of the Stat■. To permit the old worship, n
uebuseers, with their storm-hoods and scaling ladders, rushing swiftly towards the forts, but beyond the broken sea dyke the reserved masses supporting the atta
■f England, of Holland, and of America, with a contempt of toil, danger, and death which enabled them to accomplish things almost supernatural. No uncouthness o
), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license. Section 1. Gen
608B *** This eBook was produced by David Widger [NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the file for those who may wish to sample
lief. It will be necessary, ■t the proper moment, to indicate the nature of Prince Maurice's operations. For the present, it is better that the reader should co
s of honour in gorgeous attire, pranced impatiently about, awaiting the dramatic termination of a leaguer which was becoming wearisome to besieger and besieged.
ctory as far as it went, and the ambassador complimented the king on his wide views of policy and his lofty sentiments in regard to human rights. Warming with t
asonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing ■roject Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that: • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross
IDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRE
e envoys were received with much ceremony at the city gates by the governor of the place, who conducted them in a stately manner to a house called the king's ma
mall and scarcely inhabited, was lashed by the ocean, and exposed to perpetual danger from its storms and flood-tides, but was partially protected from these en
eign's reckless extravagance in buildings, parks, hunting establishments, and harems, he might have accomplished even greater miracles. He lectured the king rou
 sleep. They would awake to the consciousness of ruin. Thus men in the United Provinces spake of America. Especially Barneveld had been supposed to be prominent
pressed anger or public criticism. A handsome, aristocratic personage, with an intellectual, sad, but sympathetic face, fair hair and beard, and imposing but at
in order to give vent to the horrible agitation which he had been enduring and so bravely concealing ever since the fatal words had been spoken. That a city so 
s much injury to the republic as might lie in its power. While at heart convinced that the preservation of the Netherlands was necessary for England's saf■ty, i
OOK HISTORY OF THE UNITED NETHERLANDS FROM THE DEATH OF WILLIAM THE SILENT TO THE TWELVE YEAR'S TRUCE, 1607B *** Updated editions will replace the previous one—
the building of the Escorial by Philip II. until the auditing of his accounts brought him into temporary disgrace, and the Marquises of Velada, Villalonga, and 
 debts Loud, nasal, dictatorial tone, not at all agreeable Peace would be destruction Repudiation of national debts was never heard of before Some rude lessons 
n either Henry or Maurice; and thus while there were three individuals who in different ways aspired to supreme power, the republic, notwithstanding, asserted a
t in the course of the bargaining one of the bags became untied, and its contents, much to the dissatisfaction of the proprietor, were emptied on the ground. Th
lmost seem a fiction, invented by the war party to inspire a general disgust for any further negotiation. Every loyal Netherlander would necessarily be qualmish
oe, burn ships, and butcher the sailors at pleasure, seems difficult to understand. To expect from the inhabitants of this robbers' cave-- thi■ "church on the d
n 1608. In accepting wages fairly earned, however, he protested that he had bound himself to no dishonourable service, and that he had never exchanged a word wi
 with truth, that■the Alcoran was less cruel than the Inquisition, that the soil of Europe might be overrun by Turks and Tartars, and the crescent planted trium
 after the battle of Nieuport, but which indicated the exasperation which existed. When the news of the rejection of the King's ratification reached Madrid, the
e this provision of their own accord rather than on the requisition of Spain, but a rupture■of the pending negotiations from the cause suggested would be painfu
rder that the archdukes had been muc■ touched with his adroitness and zeal in facilitating the entrance of their secret agent into the presence of the Prince an
wounded; Captain Logier was wounded in the foot, and lost fifteen killed and twelve wounded. The number of those killed in Spinola's fleet has been placed as hi
ly involved, were those inspired by the spirit of commercial-enterprise. Nor can it be denied that there is often a genial and poetic essence even among things 
work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the Uni
by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You 
t■olic religion. On the other hand, the States-General knew their own minds, and made not the slightest secret of their intentions. They would be sovereign, the
ers should comply with the demands of the States or take their departure, the press throughout the Netherlands was most active. Pamphlets fell thick as hail. Th
lts, called pensionar■es, who assisted the municipal authorities, received, however, a modest salary, never exceeding 1500 florins a year. These numerous bodies
re of the Portuguese. His whole force both of men and of guns was far inferior to that of the flag-ship alone of Mendoza. But he resolved to make manifest to th
 until Madrid was nearly ruined, until the desolation of the capital, the moans of the trades-people, the curses of the poor, and the gr■mblings of the courtier
ion of the castle and town of Alphen--Surrender of Rheinberg--Capitulation of Meurs--Surrender of Grol--Storming and taking of Brevoort Capitulation of Enschede
 would at once m■ke peace with Spain. On the 1st August the envoys accordingly proposed to Cecil and the other ministers to pay thirty thousand pounds a year, i
ry soo■ was to be made evident to the world. Meantime, on this renewed visit, the negotiator expressed himself as no longer doubtful in regard to the propriety 
lic; for the Grand Duke of Florence and the so-called republic of Genoa were little more than his vassals, the pope was generally his other self, and the Duke o
 people start at our website which has the main PG search facility: www.gutenberg.org. This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™, including how
mportant article of diet. She had also learned to play at cards, in order to take a hand with him at any moment, feebly hoping that an occasional game for lo■e 
istice. The general tendency towards a pacification in Europe at the close of the year could hardly be mistaken. The languor of fatigue, rather than any sincere
 waves. So self-contradictory and so inconsistent are their actions almost in the same instant as to make it impossible that they should proceed from the same p
s to who should soonest defend the pope. Henry■offered thorough protection to his Holiness, but only under condition that he should have a monopoly of that prot
ithout ransom, and such of those captives of war as had been enslaved at the galleys should be set free. The pope, the emperor, all states, and ci■ies under the
ly repudiating both interest and principal, had been tried, both in this and the preceding reign, with the usual success. An inconvertible paper currency, stimu
oll (or Groenlo), a fortified town of secondary importance in the country of Zutphen, and, squandering his men with much recklessness, in his determination not 
 greet the ambassador. He would have descended them all had not one of the counsellors plucked him by the sleeve, whispering that he had gone quite far enough. 
herefore drawn up a form which he was requested to lay before the archdukes for their guidance in making out a new power. He was asked also whether the king of 
tately manner on behalf of the king, the envoys were escorted to the lodgings provided for them in the city. The same evening they waited on the widowed princes
such decrees as he thought proper to issue, were then taken by him to the king, who signed■them with perfect docility. As time went on, this amount of business 
tion, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.■The Project Gutenberg eBook of History of the U
petite, while the pursuit and slaughter went on in all directions. The archduke, too, whose personal conduct throughout the day was admirable, had been slightly
ess even while he was still living as to render embalming impossible: He accordingly instructed Don Christopher to see his body wrapped in a shroud just as it l
 sent ratification number one in which his sentiments were fully expressed. If, however, the provinces were resolved not to defer the declaration so ardently de
gions, and to clip both those overshadowing wings of his commerce at once. The intelligence, enthusiasm, and tenacity in wrestling against immense obstacles man
ect Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. 1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or r
f Ireland to be provided for? how am I ever to get back my money? who is to pay the garrisons of Brill and Flu■hing?" And with this she left the apartment, sayi
 for them, should they rely on the slender natural resources of their own land. Not a sixth part of the population could be nourished from the soil. The ocean w
uitous Infanta and her future husband on his throne. Time would show the result. Meantime, while the Protestant Ancel and other agents of the new league against
particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS. The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable
pompously heralded as almost to suggest another grand armada, had sailed in the beginning of the winter, and an army of six thousand men had been landed at Kins
n tried, both in this and the preceding reign, with the usual success. An inconvertible paper currency, stimulating industry and improving morals by converting 
very much favour this species of war-craft, both by reason of the difficulty of procuring■the gang, and because to a true lover of the ocean and of naval warfar
Lingen. Maurice, giving profound thanks to God for his enemy's infatuation, passed by Lingen, and having now, with his cousin's reinforcements, a force of nine 
can be found at the Foundation’s website and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
e years when the republic stood shoulder to shoulder with Henry the Huguenot, could hope for aid and comfort from their ancient ally. It is very characteristic 
ion and murder within their realms, as all the world must confess. And the English merchants complain that they have suffered more injustice, violence, and wro■
 the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org. Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation The Project Gutenberg Lite
usly shattered, and rolled together upon the two other regiments, those of Hachicourt and La Barlotte, which were placed between them. Nor did these troops offe
ted supremacy over all the intriguers, foreign and domestic, the stipendiariea, the generals, the admirals, the politicians, at court, as well as over the Scotc
ely on shore; and the Hollanders then pursued their home voyage without further adventures. The ambassadors; with an Arab interpreter, were duly presented to Pr
enting that the French flag had only been raised in order that it might be dipped, in honour of the French ambassador, as the ships passed each other. The full-
ible, whispered a few soothing words in the ear of the marquis, adding aloud, so that the commissioners might hear, "Night brings counsel." These words he spoke
 heel to be crushed at his pleasure, as Aerssens, with just bitterness, exclaimed. Two days were passed at the Hague in vehement debate. The deputies of Zeeland
he republic might at last be deprived of its only remaining ally. Tassis was despatched as chief of a legation, precursory to a more stately embassy to be confi
ortal bliss as the reward of his life of evil. ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS: A despot really keeps no accounts, nor need to do so All Italy was in his hands Every o
ed of all his transmarine possessions, would be obliged to consent to a peace founded on the only secure basis, equality of strength. The envoy concluded by bes
are located before using this eBook. 1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does 
utch independence from such a monarch could hardly be thought very valuable. These were terrible words for the representative of James to have hurled in his fac
d the idleness and the frivolity of the upper classes, as depicted by contemporary and not unfriendly observers. The nobles were as idle and as ignorant as thei
half as much annually. And even if we should allow sixteen millions to have represented the value of a hundred and sixty millions--a purely arbitrary suppositio
 a profit out of the necessities of this state England hated the Netherlands Friendly advice still more intolerable Haereticis non servanda fides He who confess
he United States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requir
overnment. Accordingly the cardinal had intimated that the States would be allowed the practice of their religion, w■ile the military and civil functionaries mi
 two crowns, because the electors and other princes having fiefs within those kingdoms would be unwilling to swear fealty to two suzerains, and as Albert was yo
ions were under the constant supervision of the foremost captain o■ the age; for Maurice, in consultation with the States-General, received almost daily reports
ly to the diplomatic Paul's rhetoric in regard to the hopelessness of a contest with Spanish armies. Next, Van der Werken--pensionary of Leyden, and a classical
account of the reputation which you will thereby gain for your affairs with the people who are under you, seeing you thus sustained (besid■s the certainty which
, lost their lives before the town. The noble young Chatillon, grandson of Coligny, who had distinguished himself at Nieuport, fell in the Porcupine fort, his h
n morals To attack England it was necessary to take the road of Ireland Tranquil insolence Unproductive consumption was alarmingly increasing Upon their knees, 
aid, "that not only our own inhabitants but all strangers are amazed. The West India Company is sufficiently prepared, and will cost the commonwealth so little,
States in their attitude to the queen and to Spain was unquestionable, and her ill-humour on the subject continued long after it had been demonstrated how much 
ican principles, and readiness at any moment to defend dearly won liberties, had combined with geographical advantages to secure the national independence of Sw
might be very appropriate for decrees issued by a monarch to his vassals, but could not be rightly appended, it was urged, to an instrument addressed to a forei
y were the backs of the commissioners turned, before the indefatigable Jeannin was ready with his scheme for repatching the rupture. He was at first anxious tha
or is that the highest degree of fortitude which enables a monarch--himself in safety--to endure without flinching the destruction of his ■ellow creatures. No s
d from their counting-house table, with an unerring eye for the interests of the commonwealth and his own, with much vision, extraordinary eloquence, and a magn
to the palace. Such was the crowd, without and within, of courtiers and common people, that it was a long time before the marquis, preceded by his hundred and t
lves," rejoined Richardot, very fiercely; "you may be sure that it will be your case."' So ended that interview. Directly afterwards there was a conference betw
alre■dy existing in the provinces, against the Catholics and the later sects of Protestants. Jeannin warned him that "by thus howling with the priests" he would
 millions, one- tenth of them inhabiting London. With the Scots and Irish added they amounted to less than five millions of souls, hardly a third as many as the
o open yet once more upon the■victorious foe. At the first volley the Spaniards were staggered, and the sailors with a lively shout of "Ian-fall on," inspired t
and bloody war into a Christian and assured peace, the letters of ratification will be received in respect that they contain the declaration, on part of both th
 king, although an unscrupulous, self-seeking despot and the coarsest of voluptuaries, was at le■st a man of genius. He had also too much shrewd mother-wit to p
same time to conceal his real intention to frustrate the French design upon the independence of the republic. Disingenuous and artful as his conduct unquestiona
ive order, and his fortunate audacity in measuring himself, while a mere apprentice, against the first military leader living had been crowned with won■erful su
ers, the scene of the Admiral of Arragon's recent barbarities, were now held by the stadholder. These achievements were followed by an unsuccessful attempt upon
occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) 
 on which the safety of the commonwealth then depended, non■ was more efficient or true than the accomplished soldier and statesman Lewis William. Thoroughly di
he road that the short winter's day was drawing to a close before they were again introduced to the presence of Vere. They found that fiery personage on this oc
 one of the only two in Ostend. All day long the cannon thundered--a bombardment such as had never before been dreamed of in those days, two thousand shots havi
ir audacious and original devices. But time wore on. Pompey's famous floating battery would not float, his moving monster battery would not move. With the one; 
 town. He was soon to return to his multifarious duties as auditor, secretary, and chronicler of the city, and unattached aide-de-camp to the commander-in-chief
croachments, took the resolution to cut the pea-dyke along the coast which had originally protected the old harbour. Thus the sea, when the tides were high and 
ts expressed, and desiring to excite still further the resentment of James against Spain, he painted a vivid picture of the progress of that aggressive power in
 shores, lay strewn along the coast, swept thither by the wandering currents. At once they resolved to build a house in which they might shelter themselves from
 for the Hague on the 18th July. Maurice, after a little skirmishing with some of the forts around that city, in one of which the archduke's general La Bourlott
d tempests of the North Sea soon swept the ponderous toy into space, before it had fired a gun. The gigantic chariot, on which a moveable fort was constructed, 
