) and George Grenville's,(424) Sir Robert's, Sir W. Yonge's, Harry Fox's, (425) Mr. Chute's, and the Attorney-General's.(426) My friend Coke, for the first time
 difficult position. Insincerity is no part of my character. When I say I have a regard for a man, I mean it. But I am the young lady's guardian, sir. She is a 
f tripe! How did you do it?" asked Tom. "Bless my peck of oats!" gasped Mr. Damon. "It's a good thing we had Rad along!" "All mules am alike," said the colored 
se there was no division. Mr. Pitt called Lord Carteret the execrable author of our measures, and sole minister.(879) Mr. Winnington replied, that he did not kn
 to bring him to life again, 'stead of letting un lie for a warning to the sleepy-headed ones. ''Twas a wearied body, not a heart cold to God,' says our parson.
eavy clouds that hung glouting, that I thought we could never have waded through them. The descent is two leagues, but steep and rough as O■* * * * father's fac
 to learn what either could relate more; and thus, by comparing note■, we sometimes could make out discoveries of a third circumstance, (110) before unknown to 
 illuminated on the occasio■: indeed, it is incredible what a magnificent appearance it made. There were sixty-four candles, which showed all the pictures to gr
nes, “it will be too late then; when once they have touched our shores, the fall will be rapid.” So they turned their gold, whose value was so precarious, in■o 
d carrying a violin-case. Lucy colored and lowered her eyes, but never said a word. The young man came up to the gate■ and then Mr. Talboys recognized him. He h
ily got rid of. We had a little ball the other night at Mrs. Boothby's, and by dancing, did not perceive an earthquake, which frightened all the undancing part 
d Mr. Poddington. "Well, it's too soon to give up yet," declared Tom. "I'd like to take the king's two brothers with me." "By Jove!" exclaimed Mr. Poddington, "
ut to windward and fence the ocean out. ■ack, being summoned aft to council, burst into a hoarse laugh; but David checked him. “There is more in it than you see
ain, he is not in the Indiaman,” cried Eve, her wrath suddenly rising again; “he lies there, Miss Fountain, in that room, at death's door, and you to thank for 
on of taste, humour, and almost dramatic power of description and narrative, as in the correspondence of Walpole? Where such happy touches upon the manners and 
xantur si penitet ista dortantur; Sic ordinavit Bonifacius et roboravit. Rome, March 26 We are this instant arrived, tired and hungry! O! the charming city-I be
 to introduce the lightness of the French badinage into a masculine and somewhat rough language."-Quar■. Rev. vol. xix. p. 122. (38) Lives of the Novelists, Pro
uld take up with a stranger and jilt an old acquaintance, now is it feasible?” “Why, of course not. It was a foolish■question; you are a young woman of sense. H
ounds of revelry at the big feast. CHAPTER XXIII A SURPRISE IN THE NIGHT Tom and his friends could scarcely believe their good fortune. It seemed incredible tha
 He succeeded to the earldom in 1751, and was appointed lord-lieutenant and custos rotulorum of the county of Norfolk Mr, Pitt, in a letter, written in 1759, sa
nd all failed in tact except Mr. Hardie. Then, other male voices were imperfect; they were too insignificant or too startling, too bass or too treble, too somet
an virtue. (429) There are no arts, no menaces, which ■he Opposition do not practise. They have threatened one gentleman to have a reversion cut off from his so
utting out, in large sheets of brown paper first; next I ventured a small flight--I made Jane a■gown.” “What! your servant?” “Yes. I had a double motive; first 
as■er of the forces.-E. (1130) Pattee Byng, second Viscount Torrington. He had been made vice-treasurer of Ireland upon the going out of the Walpole administrat
all who had been engaged in it, and wished that that gentleman would speak with more lenity of an administration, in which he himself had been concerned for so 
FOUR VOLUMES VOL. 1. 1735-1748. CONTENTS OF VOL. 1. PREFACE--25 Advertisement--33 Second advertisement--40 Sir Charles Grey's Letter connecting Walpole with Jun
ter has undergone an even greater change, than any she has yet experienced in the course of all her revolutions. lord Orford is believed by his critic to have "
 come to adjust the account, zero for balance will prove their amount. One or two of the stanzas a■e tolerable; some, especially the ninth, most nonsensically b
d of these wretches are sold every year to our plantations alone! It chills one's blood-I would not have to say I voted for it, for the continent of America! Th
ench and Germans I could fling into the bargain by dozens. Nations swarm here. You will have a great fat French cardinal garnished with thirty abb`es roll into 
ts his dress, And w■ars disdain and rancour's face. To gentle pity then he changes- Thro' wantonness, thro' piques he ranges; But in whatever shape he moves, He
e others thundered off, and the ground was strewn with unconscious though unharmed animals. "One mule gone!" cried San Pedro, hastily counting the still tethere
tly to zeal for the Prince: pe■sonal and just views prompted his opposition, and the commoners of England were not less indebted to him than the Prince. Sunderl
d to be a tool for others-then, indeed, he might have deserved the appellation of artificial, eccentric, and capricious. >From the retreat of his father, which 
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook. Title: The Letters of Horace Walpole, Earl of Orford — Volume 1 Author
a character I despise.” “Who does he detract from? I never heard him.” “From all his superiors--in other words, from everybody he meets. Did you ever know hi■ f
told you, he has a very particular understanding: I really don't believe they meant to impose on you, for they thought so. As to B■ndelmonti, he is much less; h
ose you were going to say," interrupted Ned with a laugh. "Not much! I'm going to stay here and finish this book." "Say," demanded Tom indignantly. "Did you eve
ike. It enables the small capitalist to operate on the scale that belongs, in healthy times, to the large capitalist; a beggar can now gamble like a prince; his
r light, will fear our defeat, and will foresee the train of consequences.-Why, they may be wondrous ugly; but till I know what I have to think about my own fri
d be out of all bounds if I was to tell you half I feel, how young again I am one minute, and how old the next. But do come and feel with me, when you will-to-m
et's) the Pensioners; and Lord Carteret himself probably the riband. As t■ my Lady Walpole's dormant title,(760) it was in her family; but being in the King's p
y feet under ground. On the following day he sullenly consented to retreat, but added, that, in future, he would call no more councils; since he was accountable
 dear,” said Lucy, “but it is only one of my objections, and by no means the most serious.” On being invited to come at once to the latter, Lucy hesitated. “Wou
ov. 17.-the King's arrival and reception. His cool behaviour to the Prince of Wales. Lord Holderness's Dutch bride. The Prince of ■enmark. the Opera--349 124. T
,) Sir John Barnard moved to vote, that there had been great neglect in the protection of the trade, to the great advantage of' the enemy, and the dishonour of 
nk?-sixty-four pounds seven shillings and five-pence! There are many articles for Nottingham ale, eighteen-pences for dinners, five shillings to Bob (now Earl o
sand pounds for our Correggio,(880) and that there were two copies then made of it: that afterwards, he is persuaded, the King of Portugal bought the original; 
k of the first metallic imports.” “No, thank you,” replied the prudent ones, “it will be too late then; when once they have touched our shores, the fall will be
e was twenty-one. But papa told him she m■st be more than that, because she had a child that would be fifteen years old; only it died. How old would sister Emil
s, through taking of us for the creditors.” “Verehas we hare honly servants of the ke veen;” suggested No. 2, hashing hi■ mistress's English. “Stow your gab, Bi
vate with my niece?” ■nquired Mrs. Bazalgette, bitterly, of David. “Why not?” said David stoutly; but his heart turned sick as he retired. Lucy saw the look of 
 you to look out for me; I had better have b■ought the letter in my pocket. I didn't know I was coming till just an hour before I started. Mother insisted on my
of political hoax, which he played off upon him.-D. [The cardinal was afterwards, made Archbishop of Lyons. In 1752, he entirely quitted the court, and retired 
ave, at least, done for a while with postchaises. My trunks were a little opened at Calais, and they would have stopped my medals, but with much ado and much th
nt of his ambition by the Queen's death, and the proscription of his ministerial associates, had driven on attempts to restore the expelled family in hopes of r
nd to make, is, that as some future reader may possibly be as young as he was when he first wrote, he hopes they may be amused with what graver people (if into 
of her wording it, takes off that excep■ion; however, he thinks it better that you should write for advice to your commanding officer. That will be very late, a
im. What is the extraordinary part is, that it was but two o'clock, and broad sunshine. It was shocking to see anything one loved run away with to so horrid a d
trustees in his room. "Then," said Sir Robert, laughing, @ I see, my lord, that I have got Lord Bath's place before he has got mine." Sir Robert had artfully pr
nsgressed his orders, and knowing that man too dull to give right orders, he chose to sti■k to the letter, when, by neglecting it, he might have done the greate
rom a dread of ridicule, which formed a principal feature of Mr. Walpole's character, and which, carried, as in his case, to excess, must be called a principal 
vely to the end of these: "Hanc olim veteres vitam colti`ere Sabini Hanc Remus et frater: sic fortis Etruria crevit, Scilicet et retum facta est pulcherrima Rom
 writes: if that were a symptom of disgrace, the Duke of' Newcastle would have been out long ere this: and when the regency were not thought worthy of his notic
r her mourning, she may save it, if she expects to have it notified. Don't you remember my Lady Pomfret's having a piece of economy of that sort, when she would
and the last person who held a similar appointment.] (411) Frederick Prince of Wales.-D. (412) Brother to Lord Chesterfield. This bon mot was occasioned by the 
rds or the `epuisements of the Princess! I am ■nxious, too, to know how poor Mr. Whithed does, and Mr. Chute's gout. I shall look upon our sea captains with as 
illy rumors are best contradicted by a good marriage, love, and that brings me to something more important. We have two proposals for you, and both of them exce
 " Stabat mater."-E. (252) It will be seen by Walpole's letter to Mr. Chute, of the 20th August 1743, now first published, that he eventually succeeded in purch
nothing could cow it. “When are you to sail?” inquired Eve, sick-like. “In th■ee days. Cargo won't be on board before.” “A coasting vessel?” “A man can do his d
cil. "Sir Spencer Compton," replied the new monarch. The answer was decisive, and implied Sir Robert's dismission. Sir Spencer Compton was Speaker of the House 
 word; what is the matter?” “I am very bad company, sir, that is the truth.” “Well, fill your glass, then, and I'll talk for you. I have got something to say fo
hat time either continually in his room, or obliged to see multitudes of people; for it is most wonderful how every body of all kinds has affected to express th
teer came rushing toward the camp, crying: "He is caught in a rope! Mr. Damon is caught in a rope!" "A rope!" repeated Ned, not understanding. "Yes, a rope in a
e horrors of the French Revolution drove him, in the latter period of his life, into other views of politics; and he seems to have become, in■theory at least, a
nquire. Meantime David asked for two sheets of paper, and wrote a few lines on each; then folded them both (in those days envelopes were not), but did not seal 
nch King should happen to have the nomination; and then I fear, as much obliged as that court is to my Lord Cobham and his nephews, they would be so partial as 
see in her letters. During his after life, although no ostentatious contributor to public charities and schemes of improvement, the friends in whose opinion he 
ed in 1758.-D. 273 Letter 77 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, July 14, 1742. Sir Robert Brown(657) is displaced from being paymaster of something, I forget w
rtainly looks on you as her plaything, not her niece's; and you would instantly be the victim of her spite, and of her influence over Lucy, if she discovered yo
own throat. This was one of the odd ways in which men are made. I have scarce seen Lady Pomfret lately, but I am sure Lord Lincoln is not going to marry her dau
-five years; when t■e said chest, with whatever it contains, shall be delivered to him for his own. And I beg that the Honourable Hugh Conway Seymour, when be s
White's, he would think his honour engaged to pay it. There is nothing, sure, so whimsical as modern honour! You may debauch a woman upon a promise of marriage,
 Bath. He belonged to the Tory or Jacobite party.-D. [Sir Roger afterwards represented the University of Oxford in five parliaments, and died in 1806, in his ei
saw it hovering over them they had become frightened, and hidden, until Tom's voice had reassured them. "Well, get the animals," advised Tom, after he had told 
 without giving the latter the preference. Last week we were all alarm! He was before Prague with fifty thousand men, and not a man in Bohemia to ask him, "What
en present would not wish to see; and protested against screening, with the same conclusion as Pultney. The Duke of Bedford was very warm against Sir William Yo
o think it.” “Bribed? The English press bribed?” “Oh, not directly, like the English freeman. Oblige me with a journal or two, no matter which; they are all tar
st flirts I ever met with were virgins, as you call them. I tell you she is not disposed toward marriage as all other girl■ are until they have tasted its bitte
ford, who had at different periods of his life been insane, in the family estate and the earldom. The accession of this latter dignity seems rather to have anno
 we can risk a siege in here. Let's arrange the boxes and bales into a sort of breastwork, and then we'll take the electric rifles inside." This was soon done, 
rld, tells Mirabel, that she will be solicited to the very la■t; nay, and afterwards. He replies, "What! after the last?" I am in great pain about your arrears;
The good woman, who minded her affairs, and was not to be put out of her way, went about her business. She had a piece of coarse cloth to make a couple of shift
 61 To Sir Horace Mann. London, April 8, 1742. You have no notion how astonished I was, at reading your account of Sir Francis Dashwood!-that it should be possi
friend, than I can find terms to thank you for. If I was to tell-it here, it would be believed as little as the rape of poor Tory (388) by a wolf. I can only sa
evix had increased into the castellated residence we now behold. He also filled it with collections of various sorts-books, prints, pictures, portraits, enamels
ent of Sarah Duchess of' Marlborough; who, on the accession of George I , through Baron Bothmar's influence, procured for her friend the place of lady of the be
ed as e■er the _spretoe injuria formoe_ lighted up in a coquette's heart. Doubt drove in its smaller sting besides, and at sight of the couple she resolved to h
th, even in having such an offer made him, much more in accepting it. I hope you will allow there are some in making it. But hear me: if there is such a thing a
 you; and often your dear mother tried to persuade me to take a twenty-pound note, or ten; but I never would. I could not sell my milk to a queen. I'd refuse it
 April 16th, 1740, N. S. I'll tell you, West, because one is amongst new things, you think one can always write new things. When I first came abroad, every thin
y the pack twenty times over; one gets pam, the other gets pam, but there is no conclusion to the game till one side has never a card left. After my ill success
fe unto him, as ugly as he is genteel, but of a very great family, being the direct heiress of Canis Scaliger, Lord of Verona: which principality we design to s
 that Talboys crawled out of the water and glared vaguely. The sailors pulled under the sloop's lee quarter: a couple of ropes were instantly lowered, the lante
ds, "The Pembroke is arrived." I am going to receive it. I shall be in town the end of this week, only stay there about ten days, and wait on the Dominichin hit
asure to me to save your life, as you call it, than it could be to you. I can't let that into the account. A woman is a woman, but a man is a man; and I will be
r: the author is not yet known.(862) The Duke of Argyle is dead-a death of how little moment, and of how much it would have been a year or two ago.(8■3) It is p
 Charles Wager (428) gave his son a ship, and the next day the father came down and voted against him. The son has since been east away; but they concealed it ■
 probability of it. ' Feuds and con■entions run high among the eminences. A notable one happened this week. Cardinal Zinzendorff and two more had given their vo
 without giving fresh offense to her dear aunt and uncle. If she could only make it their own act! Now a man in such a case inclines to give the obnoxious parti
 you an account of what I saw: don't believe it, I don't intend it. Only think what a vile employment 'tis, making cat■logues! And then one should have that odi
on too, George II., had thoughts of bringing her over and declaring her Queen Dowager, one can hardly believe that a ceremonial divorce had passed, the existenc
ay. This painstaking person's name is Frederic, King of Prussia. Pray remember for the future never to speak of him and H. W. without giving the latter the pref
and I was going to use it to show the giants how little their strength would prevail against the power which the white man could secure from some harmless looki
same. (436) "Sir Robert," says Coxe, "seemed to have anticipated this event, and met it with his usual fortitude and cheerfulness. While the tellers were perfor
g in her mistake, and old Count Galli's distress, are all admirable stories.(710) But what is the meaning of Montemar's writing to the Antinora?--I thought he h
 and two more yesterday, of November 20th and 27th; but I find you have your perpetual headaches-how can you say that you shall tire me with talking Of them? yo
that a commission or not? Now you be quiet, and let us see what she says. No, I can't; I canno■ keep the tears out of my eyes. Do take and read it, David; I'm b
conic history of the King and Sir Robert, on going to Hanover, and turning out the Duke of Argyle. The epigram, too, you sent me on the same occasion is charmin
 is to have the Beef-eaters; the Duke of Bolton (619) who ha■ them, is to have the Isle of Wight, and Lord lymington,(620) who has that, is to have--nothing! Th
 some of these companies.” “They have, sir; but they will never redeem the said honor, for they are known to be bribed, and not obliquely, by those very compani
 the action, and the list of the prisoners: among them is one Don Theodore Diamato Amor, a cavalier of so romantic a name, that my sister and Miss Leneve■quite 
olution."-E. 252 Letter 66 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, May 6, 1742. I have received a long letter from you of the 22d of April. It amazes me! that our f
-D.) (672) One of the band of incapables who obtained power and place on the fall of Walpole. Horace Walpole, in his Memoires, calls him "that old rag of Lord B
al conversation with you, in which I should be ready to let you know what might occu■ to me. I am most truly, etc. (1093) This industrious historian and biograp
gged her patronage, but said he thought nobody fit to govern the kingdom, but the King and Queen.-Another day. Friday morning. I was forced to leave off last ni
 don't complain when you are unhappy. Are shufflers entitled to happiness? and what are those who shuffle and prevaricate in a church any better than those who 
nch seem to be at the eve of taking Antwerp and Brussels, the latter of which is actually besieged. In this case I don't see how we can send an army abroad this
e in the currency, whether real or fictitious, was in itself adverse to the working classes; but the vast and numerous enterprises that were undertaken, some in
nd a half in reading, though confined to the affair of Burrel and Bristow, the Weymouth election, and secret-service money. They moved to print it; but though t
llads, butter, puff-paste, or some such miscarriage of a dish. None, but Germans, wear fine clothes; but their coaches are tawdry enough for the wedding of Cupi
ch a word) all the adaptments are assembled here, that melancholy, meditation, selfish devotion, and despair would require. But yet 'tis pleasing. Soften the te
 haven't, for there won't be so many killed. But say, we'd better be thinking of ourselves. They ma■ make up their quarrel and turn against us any minute." "No-
 was introduced to his friend Mr. Hardie, who expressed in courteous terms his hopes that her journey had been a pleasant one. The animated words Mrs. Bazalgett
d, under the pretense of minute inspection, brought a face that was still arch and pretty unnecessarily close to the marine milliner, in■which attitude they wer
er cheeks; then she turned her back quickly on the thing, and Mr. Hardie felt her arm tremble. “I think, Mr. Hardie,” said she presently, with marked courtesy, 
ted it keenly. “Very sorry, marm, but can't take it. It's a lady's check.” “What! is it not written properly?” “Beautiful, marm. But when we takes these beautif
 her neighbours, that I had scarce time allowed me to wrap my old china in a little hay. Now comes the Pretender's boy, and promises all my comfortable apartmen
 Mr. Canning. Then, being driven to expedients, they bethought them of a chest of 1 pound notes that they had luckily omitted to burn. Another message to the go
ommodities w■s got into such a train of calling them the blessed this, and blessed that, that at last he showed us a bit of the blessed fig-tree that Christ cur
l,” said David, his eyes sparkling with delight; “thank you.” “Then, as I shall practice before the gentlemen join us, and it is four o'clock now, had you not b
 her new character at all; it mortified her, and seemed self-contradictory as well as derogatory. On her return she could not help remonstrating: “How can that 
 petition, and is to be heard next Tuesday, when we shall all have our brains knocked out by the mob; so if you don't hear from me next post, you will conclude 
iven offence,(457) as well as my gay face in public; but as I had so little joy in the grandeur, I am determined to take as little part in the disgrace. I am lo
ry Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenb
s, maybe judged of by the fact, that Lord Cobham gave his bust a place in the Temple of Worthies, at Stowe, and the mention of him in Pope's inscription in his 
 the same, March 14.-Duel bet■een his uncle Horace and Mr. Chetwynd. Death of the Duchess of Buckingham--311 101. To the same, March 25.-Epidemic. Death of Dr. 
to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS. The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities
ll: The vain, the loose, the base, might blush to see In what thou wert, what they themselves should be, Let me not charge on Providence a crime, Who snatch'd t
her again;” then added, going suddenly into a fury, that “as to the two rascally bluejackets that were on board of her, and had borrowed her of his wife while h
what is very particular the general ground of all the painting is red. Besides this temple, they make out very plainly an amphitheatre: the stairs, of white mar
 to want these new ones; four only of which are pretended to be raised. Pitt, who has alternately bullied and flattered Mr. Pelham, is at last to be secretary-a
ained us in the neatest manner, with eggs, pickled salmon, dried fish, conserves, cheese, butter, grapes, and figs, and pressed us mightily to lie there. We tum
." My dear child, she brags abominably; if it had been a thousandth degree louder, you must■have heard it at Florence. I did not write to you last post, being o
Mayence vend tout; Le Portugal regarde tout; L'Angleterre veut faire tout; L'Espagne embrouille tout; La Savoye se d`efie de tout; Le Mercure se m`ele de tout; 
rd's friends hoped it would bring moderate persons over to them, if they put some on their list who were not partial to him."-" March 29. The decision between S
 have asked your aid so long as there was the least chance of her marrying Mr. Hardie; but, now that she has of her own accord declined him--” “What is that? de
is trouble: but I think, Sir, that the precedent of what was done upon this question a few days ago, is a sufficient reason, if I had no other, for me to give m
e upon the like occasion three years ago: I succeeded, and am invited to her assembly next Tuesday. Tell Uguccioni that she still keeps conversazioni, or he wil
sked Mr. Damon, when they had pulled their chairs up around a library table, and Mr. Preston had taken some papers from his pocket. "An airship? No, I don't bel
I will!" exclaimed Tom■ "He'll have to get up early to get ahead of us." But Tom little knew the man against whom he was to pit himself in the search for giants
ertainly killed Sir James Campbell, General Ponsonby, Colonel Carpenter, Colonel Douglas, young Ross, Colonel Montagu, Geo, Berkeley, and Kellet. Mr. Vanbrugh i
nd Earl of the same in 1741. He held various high offices, and was, at the time this was written, secretary of state.-D. (410) Frances, youngest daughter of Lor
e farewell speech of his in the papers.(1042) I have received yours of the 4th of May, and am extr■mely obliged to you for your expressions of kindness: they di
 to do with that sort of stuff, anyhow?" "I may need it when we get among the wild tribes of South American Indians," answered Tom non-commitally. "I'm much obl
than to please you both, nor any more■important or laudable occupation, I will begin to satisfy the repetition of your curiosity. But observe, I promise no more
e have had another Report from the Secret Committee. They have been disputing this week among themselves, whether this should be final or not. The new ministry,
n.” “She was, indeed, a sweet young lady,” sighed the woman. “She was an angel, Baldwin--an angel sent to bear us company a little while, and now she is a saint
 am one that cannot feign.” “You need not fear me, aunt; my heart is turned to ice. I shall never intrude that love on which you set no value. May I retire?” Mr
 kissed me, and chatted some time,"-E. (61) The well-known Henry St. John, Viscount Bolingbroke, secretary of state to Queen Anne; on whose death he fled, and w
asing this picture.-E. (253) A corrupted pronunciation of the Bolognese. (254) This unfortunate marriage is alluded to several times in the course of the subseq
for nothing. Mr. Dodd and I are fast friends, and nobody will ever succeed in robbing me of my esteem for him. But you always hated him, and you seize every opp
een him, describes him as "a comely, middle-sized man, very reserved, and affecting much dignity,"-D. (811) The secretaries of state and lord treasurer carry th
elancholy letter from you, with an account of your fever and new operation. I did not in the least dream of your having any more trouble from that disorder! are
ch does honour both to the head and heart of Horace Walpole, was that which he bore to Marshal Conway; a man who, accordant to all the accounts of him that have
y are drunk, and repented when he was sober." So much for news: now for your letters. All joy to Mr. Whithed on the increase of his family! and joy to you; for 
Craon, so often mentioned in these letters.-D. 227 Letter 55 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Feb. 25, 1742. I am impatient to hear that you have received my first a
he same, April 16.-Rome. Ruins of the temple of Minerva Medica. Ignorance and poverty of the present Romans. The Coliseum. Relics--148 21. To the Hon. H. S. Con
 poor girl? of the softest temper, vast beauty, birth, and fortune■ to be so sacrificed! The letters from the West Indies are not the most agreeable. You have h
re in all the idleness and amusements of the town. For me, I am grown so lazy, and so tired-of seeing sights, that, though I have been at Florence six months, I
t day the rebels returned, having placed the women and children of the country in wagons in front of their army, and forcing the peasants to fix the scaling-lad
 has taken a Caracca ship, worth full two hundred thousand pounds. He was afterwards separated from it by a storm, for two or three days, and was afraid of losi
arried in 1736, was the Hon. Mary Molesworth. D. (807) Richard, third Viscount Molesworth, in Ireland. He had been aide-de-camp to the great Duke of Marl■orough
ng Charles II. (930) Sir Stephen Fox. (931) Sir C. Hanbury Williams. (932) Having cured himself of a nervous colic by the use of tar-water, the bishop this year
, whither old Marquis Tullybardine(1107) sent to bespeak dinner; and has since sent his brother word, that he likes the alterations made there. The Pretender fo
nd I'll do it!" exclaimed our hero. "Now let's see. I suppose the best plan would be to take a ship right to the Rio de la Plata, landing say at Buenos Ayres or
d her the whole Talboys and Hardie part. Mrs. Wilson took a broad and somewhat vulgar view of the distress. “Why, Miss Lucy,” said she, “if that is all, you can
r, your good opinion of me does not go the length of letting me come into your family.” The merchant seemed during the last five minutes to have undergone some 
 us, but most of all to me. I was her darling, and she was mine.” Here tears choked Mrs. Bazalgette's words, for a while. Recovering herself, she paid a tribute
ions. I Would ask why Mr. Chute has left me off but when he sees what a frippery correspondent■I am, he will scarce be in haste to renew with me again. I really
ughter of Thomas, first Earl of Strafford, of the second creation.-D. (872) Signor Pucci was resident from Tuscany at the Court of England. (873) Chevalier Osso
d who had been chairman of the committees of the House of Commons from 1727 to the date of this letter. He had been successively groom of the bedchamber to the 
ew of Venice, with the Rialto, and numbers of gondolas that row about full of masks, who land and dance. You would like it. Well, I have done. Excuse me if I do
edith.” Omnes. “Ha! ha! ha!” Presently a shout from Meredith: “Boys, he has got it here by the bushel. All new sovereigns. Don't any of ye be a linen-draper, if
s, for there was a sweet pensiveness mixed with her sweet tranquillity; but she looked every now and then smiling from her work up at Mrs. Wilson, and the dame 
Gaming act--422 170. To Sir Horace Mann, July 5.-Seizure of Ghent and Bruges by the French--424 171. To the same, July 12.---425 172. to George Montagu, Esq. Ju
ome with you, and it's almost impossible to make a prisoner of one. You'd better escape. I want to get away from giant land. I've had enough." "We'll get away,"
r, Bishop of Oxford, on the Prince's side, but came to nothing, [The Prince, in his answer, stated, that "he could not ■ome to court while Sir Robert Walpole pr
e man near just to look at, then I gather courage from his eye; do I not now, Mr. Dodd?” “Indeed you do,” said David, simply enough. Lucy Fountain's appearance 
heir middle age of life, the mimic republic they live in furnishes materials of conversation for their latter age; and old men cannot be said to be children a s
nglish Novelists labours under the same disadvantages. He had never seen Lord Orford, nor even lived with such of his intimates and contemporaries in society as
ur the anger of the big men who took him for an enemy. They at once made him a prisoner, and had kept him so ever since, though they did not harm him otherwise,
I wish my Lady Pomfret may leave off her translation of Froissart to English the eight hundred and forty heroics! When I know the particulars of old Marlborough
probation. When the drummer arrived with it at Edinburgh, Hawley opened it and threw it into the fire, would not let the drummer go back, but made him write to 
ty of matron despotism). “You are an in-nocent fox!! Is your needle threaded? Here is the tear; no, not there. I caught against the flowerpot frame, and I'll sw
 arrived at Genoa: I see by the prints of to-day that it is got to leghorn: I am extremely glad, for I feared for it, for the poor boy, and for the things. Tell
 the opposition having moved to adjourn till Monday, on which we divided, 265 to 177. Then the Tories all went away in a body, ■nd the troops were voted. We hav
ghted with it; for it is related of him, that when Gluck had finished his noble opera, "Iphigenia," Vestris was sadly disappointed on finding that it did not en
disadvantages-and want of beauty a■d want of talent are serious ones to a cantatrice,-it will be seen from Walpole's letter to Mann, 5th Nov. 1741, that the Mos
■mnasiad," etc. In "Manners," having attacked some members of the House of Lords, that assembly summoned Dodsley, the publisher, before them, (Whitehead having 
et the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to do
is silent as to the name of fair Geraldine.-E. 385 Letter 146 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Aug. 16, 1744. I am writing to you two or t■ree days beforehand, by wa
ura et regni novitas me talia cogunt Moliri, et late fines custode tueri. I will show you the rest when I see you. (211) In a letter from Florence, written by L
d rescued from the fir■ in the hold. "What are you going to do with that mule?" asked Ned, as he saw Tom begin to lead the animal away, the others having been p
next volume of this series, to be called, "Tom Swift and His Electric Camera; Or Thrilling Adventures While Taking Moving Pictures." And now, for a time, we wil
lieve there is no judicious choice made of directors. There is nothing of the kind known in the world; I mean a Roman city entire of that age, and that has not 
ugal virtues, and grief on the death of her royal spouse. I conclude this medal was struck in her regency, by her express order, to the memory of her lord, and 
 passions few so truly hit: The scourge of dunces whom his malice made- The impious plague of the defenceless dead: To real knaves and real fools a sore- Belove
precise period. (128) The story is thus told by Dr. Warton:-" These lines were shown to her grace, as if they were intended for the portrait of the Duchess of B
o told it to my father: but the King was too tender of the honour of his mother to utter it to his mistress; nor did Lady Suffolk ever hear of it, till I inform
t ye trouble, sir. It is not worth while putting you about for an old woman like me.” Then suddenly dropping the mask of nonchalance which women of this class o
 upon the camp being less than eight feet. "And I believe there must be bigger ones in their land, wherever that is," said Tom. Nor were these giants tall and t
y dear Harry, As gloriously as you have set out, yet I despair of seeing you a perfect hero! You have none of the charming violences that are so essential to th
 mainsail, and carried on till she seemed to sail on her beam-ends, to make up, as far as possible, by speed and smartness for what she lost by rig in beating t
level with his understanding; if he judges of what is truly honourable for himself with the same superior genius which animates and directs him to eloquence in 
the effects of the electricity. "Bless my saddle pad!" cried Mr. Damon. "I don't think I want to go through anything like that again." "Neither do I," agreed To
etched. But in society he seemed another man. There his characteristics were quiet courtesy, imperturbability, a suave but impressive manner, vast information o
 coming ashore without her. He hesitated. David got impatient. “Come, sir,” he cried, “don't you hear the lady invite you? and every moment is precious.” And he
'd never have blown up the one next to it, though we suspected you might be held captive somewhere around here, from the queer way the giants acted when we aske
ad. I declare, I guess I've got the spring fever. I haven't done anything since we got back from Russia last fall, and I'm getting rusty." "You haven't done ANY
heir transports. By the fortune of the winds, which have detained them in port, we have had time to make preparations; if they had been ready three weeks ago. w
ght filled him with life and joy. His was naturally a sanguine, contented mind. Some lovers equally ardent would have seen more to repine at than to enjoy in th
Grennvilles are the warmest: Pitt and Lyttelton went away without voting.(906) My father has exerted himself most amazingly - the other day, on the King's layin
stantly leave him and come h■me, you shall never enter my house again.” “Unless sickness or trouble should visit your house, and then you will send for me, and 
, a sad fellow. He has quite abandoned me for fear of offending."-D. (767) "Apropos of duels, two of our young nobles, Marquis BagneSi and Strozzi, have fought 
nner of sketching characters, rendered them peculiarly his own. But his masterpiece in this line was his "Catalogue of Royal and Noble Authors," originally publ
e Lord Middlesex, that odious Muscovita; but shall discard Mr. Vaneschi. We a■e to have the Barberina and the two Faussans; so, at least, the singers and dancer
King has now been there some time. As new a thing as it is, we don't ■alk much about it. Adieu! the family are gone a fishing: I thought I stayed at home to wri
e Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations. To learn mor
can receive any additional honour, Dr. Middleton is most capable of conferring it. (228) I receivc with great pleasure any remembrances of my lord and your sist
teen regiments of foot were voted without a division, and the two of horse carried by 192 to 82. Then came the motion for the address, and in an hour and half m
PTER XXXI. THEY had been married a week. A slight change, but quite distinct to an observer of her sex, bloomed in Lucy's face and manner. A new beauty was in h
es were not in the habit of carrying such weapons, the lad had communicated his suspicions to Tom. "What man, senor?" asked the head mule driver. "That one!" an
hetwynd," from his dark complexion. He died in 1770.] (494) Nathaniel Hooke, a laborious compiler, but a very bad writer. It is said, that the Duchess of Marlbo
Who does he detract from? I never heard him.” “From all his superiors--in other words, from everybody he meets. Did you ever know him fail to sneer at Mr. Hardi
ophe threw me. I sank down into the box, and have never since ventured to set my foot into the playhouse. The next night, the uproar was repeated with greater v
e would have learned something that might have saved him and the others considerable trouble and no little danger. And this fact was that Andy Foger had■been in
56 To Sir Horace Mann. London, March 3d, 1742. I am Obliged to write to you to-day, for I am sure I shall not have a moment to-morrow; they are to make their mo
 other writings. The story is too horrible almost for tragedy. It is, as Walpole himself observes,"more truly horrid even than that of Oedipus." He took it from
I don't know whether it was my Lord of Bristol (611) or some of the SaddlerS,((612) Company who had told him that■this was the way "to steal the hearts of the p
t Howe, and mother of the present earl. (77) Lady Howe was never publicly acknowledged as t■e Kings daughter; but Princess Amelia, (78) treated her daughter, Mr
hat moment there were confused cries, and a series of shouts and commands up on deck. "We'd better hurry out of here," said the officer. "Why?" "The captain has
ee knots to her two, sir,” said the old man, “but it is by her good will; that is the fastest boat in the town, sailing on a wind; at beating to windward we cou
ot o■e of the number that wonder so much at this match; for the King of France married Madame de Maintenon, and many men have done the same thing. But as to the
lashed, but she answered with apparent nonchalance: “I am glad you like him; you will take him off my hands now and then. He must not be neglected; Bazalgette w
he Pembroke is arrived." I am goin■ to receive it. I shall be in town the end of this week, only stay there about ten days, and wait on the Dominichin hither. N
 himself, and said he must speak English, for his mouth was very sore. I had a letter from you yesterday of January 7th, N. S. which has wonderfully excited my 
out for us." "Then let's plan some way to beat him," suggested Mr. Damon. "Look over your goods, Tom, and make the king a present that will bind his friendship 
cke, Hume Earl of Marchmont, and is now vested in that of Robinson Lord Grantham, the great-great-grandson of the duke.) (141) Lady Sophia Bentinck, second wife
's advancement to the dukedom.-E. 126 Letter 5 To George Montagu, Esq. King's College, May 30, 1736. Dear George, You show me in the prettiest manner how much y
oyle, who died from his ill-treatment of her. Upon a picture of lady Dorothy at the Duke of Devonshire's at Chiswick, is t■e following touching inscription, wri
deep blush that suffused her whole face at the bare idea of being betrayed into an indelicacy of this sort. “How could he say that? how could he know?” said Mr.
ll he seemed to b, he asked him whether he thought he had strength enough to go through t■e fatigues which awaited him. To this the Marshal's reply was "il ne s
ay!" cried Tom. "He may be dead!" Together the chums sprang forward. The folds of the serpent had scarcely ceased moving before the two youths snatched their fr
ed a great body of the Prussians in Moravia. We are going to extend a helping hand to her at last. Lord Stair (510) has accepted what my Lord Argyll resigned, a
f Orford — Volume 1 Author: Horace Walpole Release date: November■1, 2003 [eBook #4609] Most recently updated: June 13, 2024 Language: English Credits: This ete
always be yours sincerely. P. S. My dear Chutes, I hope you will still return to your own England. (903) James Barry, fourth Earl of Barrymore. He died in 1747.
?” The lady nodd■d. Mrs. B. “I meant to marry a fool in Bazalgette, but I found my mistake. The wretch had only feigned absurdity. He came out in his true color
ated minds as I never met at so early an age, and whose fine eyes I do know will read me With candour, and allow me that mite of fame to which I aspire, their a
on't like this, just the same. Those giants may turn from us, and favor him on the slightest pretence. I guess we've got our work cut out for us." "Then let's p
 a new correspondence, the topic of which must be blood! Yesterday, came advice from Mr. Thompson,(911) that Monsieur Amelot had sent for him and given him noti
om Swift but me. Does yo' heah dat, giant man?" "Me Tom's man!" exclaimed the big fellow, and in fairly good English. Tom laughed. He had no idea the giant had 
 said he, “because you have behaved well all day.” David was all expectation. “I like her because she has got red cheeks, and does whatever one asks her.” Oh, b
n I almost ever saw him, and declared to Churchill, (318) of whom Pultney claims a promise, that he must take Walpole or Pultney. The Sackville■finally were eng
lgette was getting jealous of her own flirtee: he attracted too much of that attention she loved so dear. At last Reginald, despairing of Dodd, went in search o
ve engaged with King Theodore: your character is not-Furibondo. Sir R. entirely disapproves all Mysterious dealings; he thinks Furibondo most bad and most impro
estrial and ever-varying excitement, while occasional glances upward soothed him with the mild consciousness that there was his property still hovering in the e
and finally reached the turnpike road. There she found Mrs. Wilson, with a light-covered c■rt and horse, and a lantern. At sight of her Mrs. Wilson put out the 
indeed I expected! After the various reports about the Brest squadron, it has proved that they are sixteen ships of the line off Torbay; in all probability to d
ast night, but they are very unfashionable, for never was fallen minister so followed. When he kissed the King's hand to take his first leave, the King fell on 
d a peer, by the title of Lord Sandys, Baron of Ombersley,■and made cofferer of the household.-E. (757) The British troops began their march from Flanders at th
educed! My dear child, it looks too much like the son of a minister, when I am no longer so; but I can't help repeating to you offers of any kind of service tha
can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Guten■erg™ electronic 
teen or fifteen ships at home! Allelujah! I received yours yesterday, with the bill of lading for the gesse figures, but you don■t tell me their price; pray do 
own jealousy and ambition. Who are mortified, are the fair Sophia and Queen Stanislaus. However, the daughter carries it off heroically: the very night of her f
283) Mademoiselle Misse Molli, etc. I love them, for they asked vastly after you, and kindly. Do you know, I have had a mind to visit Pucci, the Florentine mini
g? he is not." You say, "How came I not to see Duc d'Aremberg?" I did once at the opera; but he went away soon after: and here it is not the way to visit foreig
a famiglia? The Cardinal Corsini has so thoroughly pushed on the misery of Rome by impoverishing it, that there is no money but paper to be seen. He is reckoned
ther. The other night at Mrs. Boothby's- Well, I did believe I should never find time to write to you again; I was interrupted in my letter last post, and could
eased by the explosion. "Hand me an electric rifle, Ned!" cried Tom. "Bless my shoe laces!" cried Mr. Damon. "You're not going to kill any of the giants; are yo
or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Arch
en Of friendship fancies to be seen; Soon again he shifts his dress, And wears disdain and rancour's face. To gentle pity then he changes- Thro' wantonness, thr
got to take with us, and how they can best be divided up." Thick weather delayed the ship somewhat, so it was not until evening of the next day that they made M
ou know what I came for?” “Oh, yes, to receive my congratulations.” “More than that, a great deal--to ask you to go halves in the _Rajah.”_ Lucy's eyebrows dema
orders--in an evil hour for Lucy. The poor girl's triumph over the forces was but momentary; her ground was not tenable. The person promised can release the per
 in one. In another, Enceladus, in lieu of a mountain,■is overwhelmed with many waters. There are avenues of water-pots, who disport themselves much in squirtin
e, May 26.-Ranelagh. Anecdotes. Sir Thomas Bootle. Story of Prince Edward--550 253. To the same, June 7.-The Duke of Newcastle's journey to Holland. Strawberry 
d, "start from the Amazon and work south?" "It would take too long," declared Tom. "We know that the giants are somewhere in the northern part of Argentina, or 
ligingly to her, th■y were ready to cry out for joy. When the Virgin appeared on the stage, every body looked respectful; and, on several words spoke by the act
e impudence his defenders can sell him - and when all that is vented-what then?-why then, things will just be where they were. General Wade (888) is made field-
pect what he has so much courted by all methods,-think of his talking of making it dangerous for any one else to accept the first ministership! Should such a pe
ost in a state of frenzy at last, and flew his new kite with yells. But after a bit he missed a familiar incident; “It doesn't tumble down; my other kites all t
sidered by the gentry. He is only took in payment of them beautiful reg-mentals. However, black or red, he is always well put on. I am sure he looks just out of
e a captain next voyage, Miss Lucy, and a sailor like me■has no expenses; all he has is his wife's. The first lady in the land will not be petted as you will, i
omeone moving outside the canvas shelter. "Is that you, Mr. Damon?" he asked, the odd gentleman having a tent adjoining that of the boys. There was no answer. "
t, were so strong, that, on the division, we were 190 to 44: I think and hope this will produce some Hanoverians too. That it will produce a dismission of the C
--I might reckon on your permission--on your kind--support?” “Hardly,” said Mr. Bazalgette, hastily. He then stared at the honest earnest face that was turned t
ilding for these pieces were at the very top. Upon inquiry, we were told they had been measured by an architect, who declared they were larger than any member o
hat she is grown tired of sublunary affairs, and willing to come to a composition with her lord: I believe that the price will be two thousand a-year. The other
ing in no humor for vague chat, he left Mrs. Wilson to herself, with an assurance that Miss Fountain would be down to her directly. In leaving her he went into 
dy think that I would not do whatever you do. I am of no consequence; but, at least, it would give me some to act invariably with you, and that I shall most cer
, the big man stooped over and grasped the handle. But he did not arise. Instead, the muscles of his naked arm swelled out in great bunches. "See, you are as a 
tle and Hardwicke with Pulteney and Carteret, before Sir Robert's determination to resign, the coalition was effected between the 31st of January and 2d of Febr
ountry dances last night at a formal ball, where there was no measure kept in laughing at her old, foul, tawdry, painted, plastered personage. She played at pha
t that you stay where you are," insisted the officer. "Look here young man, do you want to start a panic? You know what that is on board ship. Keep cool, we'll 
ny scandal against him.” “Oh, I don't mean your negative goodness. You never heard anything against _me_ out of doors.” “Well, and are you not a good girl?” “Me
 rather high table land, they started across a fertile plain that was covered with a rich growth of grass. "Good grazing ground here," commented Ned. "Yes," put
an outline of the feelings that had now for some time been secretly growing in her, since without their co-operation she would never have been driven to the str
ir letters! Patapan sits to Wootton to-morrow for his picture. He is to have a triumphal arch at a distance, to signify his Roman birth, and his having barked a
 the science, and I was always too desultory and impatient to consider that I should please myself more by allowing time, t■an by hurrying my plans into executi
etters that arrive, the loss of the French turns out more considerable than by the first accounts: they have dressed up the battle into a victory for themselves
o this lasting havoc which it brought upon Africa. We reproach Spain, and yet do not even pretend the nonsense of butchering the poor creatures for the good of 
 not help remonstrating: “How can that be my cha■acter? A fox is cunning, and I despise cunning; and _I am sure_ I am not _innocent,”_ added she, putting up bot
red and trembled. The sailors, rough but tender nurses, wrapped sha■ls round her one above the other, “to make her snug for the night,” they said. They seemed t
I attribute to the taking of the packet-boat by the French, with two mails in it. It was a very critical time for our negot■ations; the ministry will say, it pu
mething of its history, and had learned to talk the language, explained how Kosk had usurped the throne. His brothers were subject to him, he said, but several 
, and we have something serious to say to you now. There is a report, dearest, creeping about that you have formed an u■fortunate attachment--to a person beneat
ador at Paris, and in 1769 Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. He was accidentally drowned in a well in his park at Nuncham, in 1777; occasioned, it is believed, by ove
 he presented to the King,■with which I don't doubt but his lordship will oblige the public.(856) He has ordered all his equipages to be sold by public auction 
uable, and there's no use killing them. All we want to do is to turn them aside." "That's right," agreed Mr. Damon, forgetting in the excitement of the moment t
ame last night that the States of Holland have voted forty@seven thousand men for the Assistance of the Queen,(632) and that it was not doubted but the States--
 de Bussy were the English and French residents. 336 letter 117 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Aug. 14, 1743. I should write to Mr. Chute to-day, but I w
 the dog," he adds, "had not been there, and the creature had thought fit to lay hold of one of the horses, chaise and we, and all, must inevitably have tumbled
such a thing as spending them. It is certain, he is dead very poor: his debts, with his legacies, which are trifling, amount to fifty thousand pounds. His estat
 tim■d, especially in this inter-ministerium, that I am in great apprehensions of our having the plague an island, so many ports, no power absolute or active en
on are declared of the prime ministry. The first moment they can, Tencin will be for transporting the Pretenders into England. Your advice about Naples was quit
Tories. Mr. Pultney proposed to grant a large sum for assisting the Queen of Hungary, and got Sir John Barnard to move it. They have given the King five hundred
sting a venomous look on David; “I am too late, am I? Poor girl!” Lucy soothed her aunt with the information that she was much happier now than she had been for
something. I wouldn't mind going on another like that, though we ran lots of risks." "We sure did," agreed Tom, and then, raising his voice he called out: "Rad,
 relationship between them-and yet none is to be traced in the■pedigree of either family. Sir Robert Walpole had two brothers named Horace and Galfridus-and Sir
ton I would send you an account of what I saw: don't believe it, I don't intend it. Only think what a vile employment 'tis, making catalogues! And then one shou
mire my preserver's courage and delicacy and unselfishness and goodness, I don't love him; so, but for this, he MUST have been unhappy for life, and t■en I shou
own that in Queen Anne's time there was much noise about French prophets. A female of that vocation (for we know from Scripture that the gift of prophecy is not
 was to get Lord Orford's coachman to drive them." They demurred; but Lord Carteret said "Oh, I dare say, Lord Orford will willingly let us have him." So they s
 who begins to talk seriously of Houghton, has desired me to go -with him thither;' but that is not all settled. Now I mention Houghton, you was in the right to
a slender collection of quotations against I should have any occasion for them. Here are some fine lines from Lord Halifax'■ (838) poem on the battle of the Boy
corresponding passages are given below are all published as Letters o■ Junius by Mr. Woodfall, and are of dates later than the time when Walpole wrote his Memoi
uenos Ayres, I think." "That's what I'd do," advised the old circus man. "Now I can give you some points on what to take, and how to act when you get there. The
han diverting yourself. For my part, I shall give you my advice on this point with as much reflection as I should, if it were necessary for me, like a true frie
n so created in 1710, having lost all his sons during his lifetime, obtained a new patent in 1740, creating him Marquis Grey, with remainder to his grand-daught
e, and luffed immediately, and was on the new tack first of the two. “Ay, my lass,” said the old boatman, “you are smartly handled, no doubt, but your square st
 of the word "giant" even in that connection. "Don't tell everyone our business, Rad." "Dat's right, Massa Tom. I clean done forgot dat it's a sort of secret. I
! Our whole number was to be but sixteen; and if all these cannot be assembled before the end of July, what will be said of it? The Secret Committee go on very 
E MILLER. Mene tekel. The handwriting on the wall. 1. I'll tell you a story as strange as 'tis new, Which all, who're concerned, will allow to be true, Of a Bal
s not with the riding-party, had a mind to chat with him. David found him in a magnificent study, lined with books, and ■ung with beautiful maps that lurked in 
n't do it. There's a chance, though, that Mr. Poddington may be here, or may have been here. If we could only get out and make some explorations or some in■uiri
 your day, would have averted the panic of 1793. I have the paragraph in my note-book. He was a great man, sir; oblige me, Mr. Skinner.” “Certainly, sir, certai
 and whether you or Ashton had any hand in the taking of'it. Duty to the admiral. Adieu! Ever yours, T. GRAY. (187) Porto-Bello, taken from the Spaniards by Adm
red, and formidable. “Ah! nurse, with you I should indeed feel safe from every ill. But, for all that, I shall never go beyond the usages of society. I shall ne
rom unkindness for one day at least. But no, they made it clear there was but one way back to their smiles. Their congratulations at the breakfast-table were co
 old," and he motioned to Eradicate. "Eh! What's dat yo' done said?" gasped the colored man. "Me too old? Looky heah, giant man, I'd hab yo' know dat I's been i
aiting from Pitt, who is ravenous for the place of secretary at war: they would give it him; but as a preliminary, he insists on a declaration of our having not
o bear him to the sleeping tent which had been erected. "Liver pin!" suddenly ejaculated Mr. Damon. It was what he started to say when the serpent had squeezed 
the unnatural mother of Savage the poet. Miss Brett was very handsome, but dark enough by her eyes, complexion, and hair, for a Spanish beauty. Abishag was lodg
that can't■be; you have no side." I have a new cabinet for my enamels and miniatures Just come home, which I am sure you would like: it is of rosewood; the door
hours.-E. (193) Henry fourth Earl of Carlisle, grandfather of the present Earl. In 1742, he married Isabella, the daughter of William fourth Lord Byron, and die
ble candelabra in the Radcliffe library, and founded an annual prize for English verses on ancient painting, sculpture, and ar■hitecture.] (686) Holkham. Coke w
ance that it was very difficult to know them apart.-D. The estimation in which Lord Marchmont was held by his contemporaries, maybe judged of by the fact, that 
 new couple! you don't say. I suppose, some Suares, by the raffle. Adieu! (874) Lord Carteret. (875) Lord■Carteret's, Mr. Pelham's, and Lord Orford's. (876) The
d both his legs by a cannon-ball. I have no notion of his losing them, but by breaking them in over-hurry to run away. However, it comes from a Jew, who had the
bandboxes, and citron-water, and cards, and cold meat, as country-women do after the session. My packing-up and travelling concerns l■e in very small compass; n
 to Wade to propose a cartel. Wade returned a civil answer, which had the King's and council's approbation. When the drummer arrived with it at Edinburgh, Hawle
her afflictions, bore his spirit down, though nothing could cow it. “When are you to sail?” inquired Eve, sick-like. “In three days. Cargo won't be on board bef
h excited 'bout him. Be calm! Be calm!" "Calm! With that bunch of wild animals bearing down on us?" shouted Tom. "Let's see you be calm, Rad. Come on here, you 
 two branches of Oxford and Cambridge. You seem to be the eldest son, by having got a whole inheritance to yourself; while the manor of Granta is to be divided 
 our enemies, who act sensibly from principle and from interest. Ruling parties seldom have caution or common sense. I don't doubt but Whigs and Protestants wil
all Say i am too litle and jane says Sailors always end by been Drouned so it is only put off. But you reely must keep your Promise ■o me. wen i am biger And mr
ad more than once received letters from the Pretender, making him the greatest offers, which Sir R. always carried to the King, and got him to endorse, when he 
ounds each. Would you believe that I am one? You need not believe it quite, for I am but half an one; Mr. Conway and I take a sha■e between us. We keep Monticel
off. Hardly had they begun the advance than Ned, who had been narrowly watching one of the natives, hurried up to Tom, and rapidly whispered something to his ch
■arborough, his Royal Highness's Treasurer, moved an address of approbation of the measure, which was carried by 78 to the former 35. Lord Orford was ill, and c
outh sister-princesses for eternal companions? I am so near the eve of going into Norfolk, that I imagine myself something in her situation, and married to some
His childish and troublesome behaviour, particularly lately (,but I Will not mention instances, because I would not have it known whom I mean), has set him in t
ed the pious duty of attempt■ng to rescue, by incontrovertible facts, acquired in long intimacy, the memory of an old and beloved friend, from the giant grasp o
ng the passions, was to indulge them mine for keeping my temper in order, is never to leave it too long with another person. I have found out that it will have 
. To the same, april 1.-Secret Committee balloted for. court and Opposition lists. Bill for repealing the Septennial Act rejected--241 61. To the same, april 8.
e supposition that the King would go himself: it was this line fro■ the Rehearsal:- "Give us our fiddle; we ourselves will play." The lesson for the Day (698) t
ization again." "By Jove! I believe that will work!" cried the circus man. "Bless my corn plaster, I think so myself!" added Mr. Damon. "But first we've got to 
und a very able and sturdy antagonist. Mr. Hardie had also many advantages over him. First, the young lady was not the least shy of Mr. Hardie, but the parting 
 "Not if it's going to put you out, Tom," objected the circus man. "I can go to the hotel, and--" "No, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert graciously, for she pride
er of the unhappy Lady Euston.-D. (267) Margaret Woffington, the celebrated beauty.-D. (268) William, Marquis of Hartington, afterwards fourth Duke of Devonshir
ary by that name, more than four lines on a chapter in the New Testament is an epigram. Tydeus (134) rose and set at Eton: he is only known here to be a scholar
ed 'Houghton: Oct. 6th, 1744,' are all that appear till 'may 18th, 1745,' when his letters to George Montagu recommence, after an interval of eight years. Where
ournals for the signs of a general collapse of paper and credit; instead of which, public confidence seemed to increase, not diminish, and the paper balloon, as
ificed him voluntarily. Disappointment, rage, and a distempered constitution carried Lord Hervey off, and overwhelmed his Princess - she never appeared in■publi
 Vices Come along, And in narration he's extremely long; Exact in circumstance, and nice in dates, He each minute particular relates. If you name one of marlbro
, goes to the opera at nine at night, to supper at one, and to bed at three! But literally here the evenings and nights are so charming and so warm, one can't a
ir like this, monotony reigned; so he now proposed that his new friend should fasten the string to the pump-handle, and play at ball with him beneath the kite. 
ut male issue. One of those ladies died without children, by which means the title lay between the families of Rolle and Fortescue. King George I. gave it to Hu
an individual speculation. These shares sell at 700 pounds apiece; a dozen of them are not worth one Dutch tulip-root. Ah! here is a company of another class, i
og, you!" said Scrope, and pulled him by the nose. The committee have tried all ways to soften him, and have offered to let him swear to only what part he pleas
 the House of Lords on the explosion of the South Sea scheme. That iniquitous affair, which Walpole had early exposed, and to remedy the misch■efs of which he a
en maid of honour to the Princess of Wales. 256 Letter 69 To Sir Horace Mann Downing Street, May 26, 1742. To-day calls itself May the 26th, as you perceive by 
al thousand capit■lists, and disposed them to search for an investment. A flattering one offered itself in the nick of time. Considerable attention had been dra
uld say who was not corruptible-that man was Shippen. His speeches generally contained some pointed period, which he uttered with great animation. He usually sp
(Saturday). Monday and Tuesday we went on the Westminster election. Murray (365) spoke divi■ely; he Was their counsel. Lloyd (366) answered him extremely well: 
e world, in Smollett's novel of "Per■grine Pickle," under the title of "Memoirs of a Lady of Quality." She is also immortalized in different ways, by Johnson, i
er lived. If it would not sound ridiculously, though, I assure you, I am far from feeling it lightly, I would tell you of poor Patapan's death - he died about t
as if the Almighty had restrained his ordinance to one half of a man's person, and allowed a greater latitude to his left side than to his right, or pronounced 
 (409) William Stanhope, created Lord Harrington in 1729, and Earl of the same in 1741. He held various high offices, and was, at the time this was written, sec
 and eventually, on the Princess becoming Queen, exercised an influence over her, of which even sir Robert Walpole was jealous.] (404) Queen Caroline, died Nove
 ■f Kildare, in 1766 created Duke of Leinster.] (273) Charles, second Duke of Richmond, and Lady Sarah Cadogan, his duchess, eldest daughter of William Earl Cad
reading till Tuesday. Then we had a long debate till eight at night, when they carried it, 228 against 217, only eleven majority: before, they had had twenty-th
pen had nothing to sa■. I would make it do something to-day though what will come of it, I don't conceive. They say, the King does not go abroad: we know nothin
r voices, and then his face breaking into a broad grin, that showed a great mouth filled with white teeth, he called to them in an unknown tongue and in a voice
xcept the second, understood by halves, by quarters, or not at all. You shall have the journals of this notable academy. Adieu, my dear ■est! Yours ever, Hor. W
d Mr. Hardie. The old gentleman began at last to doubt himself and his system. “The bank would last my time,” said he, “but I must think of my son. I have seen 
ucy. Now, youngs■er, why don't you spin your own yarn?” “Yes, tell me, Reggy.” “Well, dear, when I had written to mamma, and Johnny had folded it--because I can
 plume■, trophies, banners, led horses, scutcheons, or open chariots; nothing but friars, white, black, and grey, with all their trumpery. This goodly ceremony 
mother took you from the girl that held you all wrapped up, and mother put you on my knees; and I took a good look at you. You had the sweetest little face that
t he does not open them. The captain mortifies me by proposing to stay three weeks at Genoa. I have sent away to-night a small additional box of steel wares, wh
or one must grow old, and that in England; two most serious circumstances, either of which makes people gray in the twinkling of a bedstaff; for know you the■e 
e on her ladyship. She obtained the man's pardon, who was cousin to Cheselden, who had feigned that pretended discovery to save his relation-and no more was hea
ssible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt s
 imprudent to carry it home in the dark, and d■posited it with the mistress. Thence the queen inferred great intimacy, and thenceforwards Lord Chesterfield coul
!” The keen hand, Hardie, smiled satirically, and after a pause answered with consummate coolness: “I believe thus much, that she loves her uncle,■and that his 
ted in linen frocks, girt with a cord, and their heads covered with a cowl all over, that has only two holes before to see through. Some of these are all black,
efer her as the most perfect creature they ever knew. The Prince frequented the waiting-room, and soon felt a stronger inclination for her than he ever entertai
.-Rome. Ruins of the temple of Minerva Medica. Ignorance and poverty of the present Romans. The Coliseum. Relics--148 21. To the Hon. H. S. Conway, April 23.-So
 Earl Gower.] (143) Amabella, eldest daughter of the Duke of Kent, married to John Campbell, Lord Viscount Glenorchy, son of Lord Breadalbane. (144) Jemima, eld
uch a change from what she was at Font Abbey, and that happy evening when she came and drank tea with us, and lighted our little garden up, and won your heart, 
lorship, Sir Robert made him chief justice for life, with an increased salary. He was an o■ject of aversion to Horace Walpole, who, in his Memoirs, tells us, "i
zed him but for part of a minute, that was long enough. A few seconds more and nearly every bone in his body wou■d have been crushed, for that is the manner in 
n the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others. 1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you
istic zeal and strict attention to the matter in hand. At this Bazalgette uttered a sort of chuckle, at which Mrs. Bazalgette turned red. David stitched on for 
arle was formerly a dependent on the Duke of Argyle,(345) is of remarkable covetousness and wit, which he has dealt out largely against the Scotch and the Patri
 appearance and manner bore out her words. Talboys was white; even David and Jack showed some signs of a night of watching and anxiety; but the young lady's che
e is younger than me, and indeed I think so, in spite of his forty years more. My head aches to-night, but we rose early; and if I don't write to-night when sha
essarily exerted. It cost her a little struggle not to laugh right out, but she turned her head away from him ■ moment and was quit for a spasm. Then she came r
ast Thursday and voted the army without a division: Shippen (477 alone, unchanged, Opposed it. They have since been busied on elections, turning out our friends
anal companies, and lighted by thirty gas companies, and every life in it worth a button insured by a score of insurance companies, dwell in hovels? Here was a 
de of the hut." This work had to be done cautiously, yet the prisoners had a certain freedom, for the guards were afraid to approach too closely. The supporting
ly!" replied, "No, Sir: he is of mine." Lord Lincoln was married last Tuesday, and Lord Middlesex will be very soon. Have you heard the gentle manner of the Fre
ads covered with a cowl all over, that has only two holes before to see through. Some of these are all black, others parti-coloured and white: and with these ma
ge, it was comparatively easy to follow the narrative by the gestures used. Then the king■asked several questions, others of the hunting party were sent for and
fine brace of carp out of my canal; and I was told I must give five guineas to Lord Chetwynd's servant for bringing me my own carp out of my own canal in my own
ent to borrow assistance. The possessor came, conveyed the king to his house, and begged the honour of his Majesty's accepting a dinner while his carriage was r
d him to my knowledge, and would again; besides, he is gone to India, so there is an end of _him._ She seems a little languid and out of spirits; it may be beca
 weather! I have a great cold, and have not been well this fortnight: even immortal majesty has had a looseness. The Duke of Ancaster (300) and Lord James Cave■
ntent him, he would willingly pay him the three and sixpence. Lord E. flew into a rage, and vowed he would write to the Duke to have him turned out of a little 
e foolscap ream. The issue of their larger notes is colossal, and renders a panic inevitable soon or late; but, to make it doubly sure, they have been allowed t
er reception. She has been at Hesse Cassel, and fondled extremely Princess Mary'S(1076) children; just as you know she used to make a rout about the Pretender's
nt for it," said Tom, as they traveled on. "These men originally belonged to a race of people noted for their great size. Then they must have lived under favora
ork is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
m for his letter which you sent me, but I am so out of humour at his brother's losing his seat, that I cannot speak civilly even to him to-day. It is said, that
correspondents must be. We are now all military! all preparations for Flanders! no parties but reviews; no officers, but "hope" they are to go abroad-at least, 
uld not write to you. It is the charmingest place by nature, and the most trumpery by art, that ever I saw. The house stands on a high hill, on an arm of the se
y, to listen when your papa told you not, and to tell me a pack of falsehoods. I must either tell your papa, or I must punish you myself; I prefer to do it myse
nventor and his new giant servant, to meet them again a little later. THE END End of Project Gutenberg's Tom Swift in Captivity, by Victor Appleton *** END OF T
 late Queen; but, sure her face is fine; her eyes vastly fine! and then she is as agreeable as one should expect the Regent's daughter to be. The Princess and s
r with an Io Paean! indeed our hymns are not so tumultuous as they were some time ago, to the tune of Admiral Vernon. They say there came an express last night,
 these old stagers can all do that.” “Old stagers!” and David looked as if blasphemy had been uttered. Bazalgette wore a grin of infinite irony. “Don't be shock
d see you, dear nurse.” “Will ye, now? Do now. I have got a nice little parlor for you. It is a very good house for a farm-house; and there we can set and talk 
ear West, take care of your health; and some time or other we will talk over all these things with more pleasure than I have had in seeing them. Yours ever. (16
 Besides this, there is a sort of an heroic tragedy, called "La rapprentatione dell' Anima Damnata."(173) A woman, a sinner, comes in and makes a solemn prayer 
id David, “if I know the game.” “Oh, I don't care what it is, so that it is fun. What is your name?” “David Dodd.” “■h.” “And what is yours?” “What, don't--you-
ges. The ore lay in so romantic a situation, and so thick, that the eye could be regaled with a heavenly landscape, while the foot struck against neglected lump
terns will interfere with the brave old part of the army, who have■served all the war. This has made great clamour. The King was against their having rank, but 
 provided their incomes are good and their manners endurable. I want a little serious conversation with you.” “Do you?” and Lucy colored faintly; “with all my h
to a hundred or two, in his hands. His art consisted in keeping his countenance, receiving them with the air of a person conferring a favo■, and investing the b
nt land, as near as we can figure it out." "War among the native tribes!" exclaimed Mr. Swift. "Yes, and one of the worst in years. Of course, Tom, after such a
 prosperity.” * “The poor ye shall have always with you.”--Chimerical Evangelist. Our old bank did not profit by the golden shower. Mr. Hardie was old, too, and
 act of conquest in Florence, and poor you retiring politically! How delightful is Mr. Chute for cleaving unto you like Ruth! "Whither thou goest, I will go; an
st, creeping about that you have formed an unfortunate attachment--to a person beneath you.” “Who told you that, aunt? Name, as they say in the House.” “No matt
ng removed mr. Tench. Lord Islay showed these letters to Lord Orford, and then to the King, and told him he had showed them to my father. "You did well."-Lord I
only wait to hear that Tuscany is quiet, and then I will convey them by the first ship. I would write to them to-night, but have not time now; old Cibber, (324)
, however, entertained with pageants every day-reviews to gladden the heart of David,(609) (609) and triumphs to Absalom! He,(610) and his wife went in great pa
nd the patient industry that makes men rich, but not in a day. One cold misgiving fell. The vast quantities of gold and silver that Mexico■ mined by English cap
ind." My Lady Townshend made me laugh the other night about your old acquaintance, Miss Edwin; who, by the way, is grown almost a Methodist. My lady says she wa
r of honour--143 18. To the Hon. Henry Seymour Conway, March 6.-Complaints of his not writing. Attachment to Florence--145 19. To richard West, Esq. March 22.-D
Lord Winchilsea, with Lord Granard,(491) Mr. Cockburn, his Grace's friend, Dr. Lee, the chairman, Lord Vere Beauclerc;(492) one of the old set, by the interest 
rset■ Pembroke, and Montgomery. Upon Lord Thanet's death, the barony of De Clifford fell into abeyance between his five daughters. These were Lady Catherine, ma
n Tom's eyes lighted on the big aeroplane, ready for instant service. "That's it!" he cried suddenly. "It's our only hope, and the last one! Come on, everybody!
Vix impune feres."-E. (897) B■tween the King of England, the Queen of Hungary, and the King of Sardinia, to whom were afterwards added Holland and Saxony. It is
 Westminster affair! His friends reproached him so strongly with his meanness, that he was shocked, and went to Mr. Pultney to get off; Mr. P. told him he had g
 1741, O. S. Your brother has been with me this morning, and we have talked over your whole affa■r. He thinks it will be impossible to find any servant of the c
 of the Duke. "It carried my Lord Marlborough," replied the other, and shall never be used for any body else." "I have consulted the undertaker," replied the Bu
stress; nor did Lady Suffolk ever hear of it, till I informed her of it several years afterwards. The disappearance of the Count made his murder suspec■ed, and 
questions: where is Prince Charles? where are the Dutch? what force have you to defend England? Prince Charles is hovering about the Rhine to take Lorrain, whic
 had come for their evening drink. They seemed quite fearless. Suddenly something long, round and thick seemed to drop down out of a tree close to the odd gentl
s well as prints, there is an end of the commission; for yo■ shall not buy me any, when he perhaps would like to purchase them. The other condition is, that you
p. 205. (Letter 48) (957 Prima donna at the opera. (958) This is an incorrect copy of the inscription on Lady Euston's picture given in a note at 329 of this vo
ll rise and vindicate her son; She tells us, all her Bishops shepherds are- And shepherds heal their rotten sheep with tar." I am not at all surprised at my Lad
ed age, November 6, 1786. In 1755 he was created a baronet, with remainder to the issue of his brother Galfridus Mann, and, in the reign of George the Third, a 
ight; but lest it should not be printed time enough, here is a list of the numbers, as it came over this morning. British foot 1237 killed. Ditto horse 90 ditto
elay things," said the odd man with a sigh. "But I suppose there is no hope for it," and he proceeded to open the box, while Tom, Ned, the circus man and Eradic
ft them at Perth, making shoes and stockings. It is certain that a sergeant of Cope's with twelve men, put to flight two hundred, on killing only six or seven. 
er still. No; I'll tell you, miss; all we have got to mind is two things; we must not let her broach to, and we must not get pooped.” “But _why_ must we not?” “
 FOR MY RIVAL!" V ANDY FOGER LEARNS SOMETHING VI ALARMING NEWS VII FIRE ON BOARD VIII A NARROW ESCAPE IX "FORWARD MARCH!" X A WILD HORSE STAMPEDE XI CAUGHT IN A
espondence, an anachronism, as Sir Horace Mann was not made a baronet till the year 1755; but, as he is best known to the world under that designation, it was c
